WIKI : dragonball.fandom.com
TITLE : "Future" Trunks Saga

{{seealso|the [[Dragon Ball Super]] Saga|the similarly named saga in [[Dragon Ball Z]]|Trunks Saga}}
{{seealso|the third part of the Zeno Saga for ''Dragon Ball Super''|the whole saga|Zeno Saga}}
{{Arc infobox
|title1 = "Future" Trunks Saga
|image1 = Future Trunks Arc key-art.jpg
|volumes = 2-5
|manga chapters = 14-26
|anime episodes = 47-76
|year(s) released = 2016-2017 (manga/anime)
|previous = [[Copy-Vegeta Saga]]<br>{{small|(anime)}}<br>[[Universe 6 Saga]]
|next = [[Universe Survival Saga]]
}}
The {{Nihongo|'''"Future" Trunks Saga'''|"未来"トランクス編|"Mirai" Torankusu Hen|lit. ""Future" Trunks Arc" }},<ref>{{cite web|url=https://twitter.com/DB_super2015/status/729506276338597888|title=【ドラゴンボール超ニュース①】|work=Twitter}}</ref> also called the {{Nihongo|'''Rebellious Zamasu Saga'''<ref>''[[Dragon Ball Heroes]]'', 2010</ref>|反逆のザマス編|Hangyaku no Zamasu Hen|lit. "Rebellious Zamasu Arc"}}, {{Nihongo|'''Goku Black Saga'''<ref>''[[IC Carddass Dragon Ball]]'', 2015</ref>|ゴクウブラック編|Gokū Burakku Hen|lit. "Goku Black Arc"}}, or '''Fused Zamasu Saga'''<ref>''[[Super Dragon Ball Heroes: World Mission]]'', 2019</ref> is the fourth saga of the ''[[Dragon Ball Super (anime)|Dragon Ball Super]] anime'' and third saga of the ''[[Dragon Ball Super (manga)|Dragon Ball Super]] manga''. It involves the return of [[Future Trunks]] and a battle surpassing time and space with [[Goku Black]] and [[Future Zamasu]], involving the [[God of Destruction|Gods of Destruction]], [[Supreme Kai (position)|Supreme Kais]], and even [[Zeno]].<ref>{{cite web|url=http://www.toei-anim.co.jp/tv/dragon_s/|title="Future" Trunks Saga synopsis|toei-anime.co}}</ref>

==Plot==
===Returning to the Past===
[[File:FutureTrunks-DBSuper.jpg|thumb|left|Future Trunks makes his debut in Dragon Ball Super]]
In the alternate timeline, Future Trunks is running and hiding from a mysterious being, causing destruction all over with its ''ki'' blasts. He enters a building and meets with his mother, Future Bulma, who is working on an experiment, and is relieved that Future Trunks is well. Future Bulma is working on the Time Machine, and has prepared enough fuel for a one-way trip to the past, betting that there will be another way a round-trip can be made. Future Trunks offers to take the fuel back to Capsule Corporation, and tells Future Bulma to rest, but Future Bulma insists on coming with him, in case [[Goku Black|"that guy"]] attacks. As they prepare to leave, an explosion is made close to them, which destroys Future Bulma's equipment. Future Bulma sees something coming, and gives Future Trunks the fuel and tells him to go, before a mysterious being grabs Future Bulma. Future Bulma tells Trunks to hurry, when the mysterious being charges a Ki Blast and blows up the building, which kills Future Bulma. Future Trunks, promising to save this world, flees while more explosions are made.

[[File:Adorable-Goten.png|thumb|right|Goten at the farm]]
Back in the present timeline, at Goku's house, Goku shows his newly-grown vegetable farm to Chi-Chi and Goten. Piccolo asks Goku why he called him, and Goku wants to train by collecting the entire harvest. Goku tells Piccolo that work can also be training, as Master Roshi trained him and Krillin as kids by making them work. Goten wants to join too, but Chi-Chi says he must study. While Goku and Piccolo are having an intense competition harvesting, Krillin arrives and wonders why Goku is okay with doing this while Vegeta is off training at Beerus' planet. Overhearing this, Goku begins sensing for Vegeta's ki. On Beerus' planet, Vegeta is training with Whis. When Vegeta transforms into a Super Saiyan Blue, Goku locks onto his ki, and teleports. Everyone is surprised but Krillin, who is forced by Chi-Chi to harvest in Goku's place. As Vegeta charges, Goku teleports in front of him, and bumps into him. Goku calls Vegeta sneaky, while Vegeta calls Goku stupid. Beerus asks if Goku brought him a gift, and Goku gives him the ball of lettuce he has been holding. Beerus enjoys the lettuce, but tells Goku that it is a gift too small for a God.

In the alternate timeline, Future Trunks knocks on a door, and meets up with Future Mai. Future Trunks tells Future Mai that Future Bulma died in order for Future Trunks to escape, as Goku Black is now able to sense his ki. Future Trunks shows Future Mai the fuel, telling her that they can now return to the past.

Back on Beerus' planet, Goku, Vegeta, Beerus and Whis are eating cups of ramen as they discuss the Omni-King. Beerus says Zeno doesn't fight, but he is indeed the strongest being and no one is above him. Whis says that Zeno can destroy anything in an instant, as there were previously 18 universes and 6 were destroyed due to him being in a spoiled mood.

[[File:TrunksBlackStareDown.png|thumb|left|Goku Black appears]]
In the alternate timeline, Future Trunks and Future Mai are eating and resting, discussing about going back 17 years in the past, where Future Trunks' friends are, as he reminisces the events. They then make their way to Capsule Corporation, wary about their surroundings. A giant vortex is in the sky, and Future Trunks tells Future Mai to go on ahead as he draws his sword. Future Trunks engages in battle, but is defeated. Future Mai gives Future Trunks the fuel and she offers to be the decoy, as Future Trunks needs to survive. Future Mai is hit with a Ki Blast, seemingly killing her. An angered Future Trunks then glares at the enemy, Black, who tells Future Trunks that today is the day he will take his final breath.

[[File:TrunksAttacksBlack.png|thumb|right|Trunks attacks Goku Black]]
Future Trunks is angry and distraught over the death of Future Mai, and wonders if he should run. Future Trunks notices the Capsule Corporation building is intact, realizing that Black does not know about the time machine. Black wonders why Future Trunks insists on fighting when he knows he cannot win. Frustrated, Future Trunks transforms into a Super Saiyan and attacks Black, successfully landing a few blows, but he is quickly beaten back. As Black prepares to finish the fight, Future Trunks finds his sword next to him and throws it at Black, who is distracted and his Ki Blast is destroyed. Future Trunks then fires a Masenko at Black, who blocks it, causing a huge smoke cloud. When the smoke is dispersed, Future Trunks is gone, as he had snuck into the Capsule Corp building. Future Trunks inserts the fuel into the time machine, climbing into it and starting it up. Black then begins to sense for Future Trunks' ki, noticing him in the time machine in the air. Black fires a Dark Kamehameha towards Future Trunks, but the time machine disappears right in the nick of time. Black is then surprised to find out that Future Trunks' ki has completely disappeared. As Future Trunks is traveling back in time, he recalls Future Bulma's words, and vows that this one-way trip will not go to waste.

[[File:TrunksFindsOut.png|thumb|left|Trunks shocked]]
Back in the present time, Trunks, Pilaf, Mai, and Shu are being taught mathematics by an instructor. Pilaf (in a complicated way, and according to the instructor, a way an old man would explain it) explains a math equation when Trunks did not understand it. The students are dismissed for lunch, and Trunks runs with Mai, holding her hand. Outside the Capsule Corp building, while he is eating lunch, Trunks senses a disturbance, and notices the time machine appearing. Trunks flies towards it, and looks inside, seeing Future Trunks unconscious, having succumbed to his fatigue. The instructor points out that the time machine is some Capsule Corporation craft, and Trunks is confused. Shu is instructed to go get Bulma, who races to the time machine, and realizes it is Future Trunks due to the word "HOPE!!" written on the side. Bulma lays an unconscious Future Trunks in a bed, and prepares to call for Vegeta. After she leaves, Mai and Shu wonder why Vegeta needs to be called, but as they realize that Trunks and Future Trunks look completely similar, they wonder if Trunks has a long-lost brother, which shocks Trunks.

In another room, Bulma is frantically looking for an item, revealed to be a communicator given to her by Whis. On Beerus' planet, Whis, Beerus, Vegeta and Goku are discussing the ramen they just ate, as Whis receives the call from Bulma. Bulma shows Vegeta and Goku the severely injured Future Trunks, and they are shocked. Trunks is even more surprised that the young man is also being called "Trunks". As Pilaf and the gang are wondering if Bulma and Vegeta are involved in a scandal, Bulma yells at them to be quiet. Bulma asks Goku if he has any Senzu Beans, and Goku says he does not. Vegeta tells him to teleport to Korin Tower to get some, but Goku says he cannot sense Korin's ki as it is too far away. Vegeta says they will first teleport back to Earth, and asks if the "younger" Trunks is there. Bulma instructs Trunks to power up so Goku can lock onto his ki, and the young Saiyan does so, transforming into a Super Saiyan. Beerus and Whis, interested, also tag along. After they arrive, Vegeta immediately tells Goku to go get some Senzu Beans. The instructor, surprised at all of these events, fearfully goes home, claiming she "has a headache". In the alternate timeline, Black vows to find Future Trunks, and powers up, coating a dark-colored aura.

At Korin Tower, Korin and Yajirobe play limbo, as Goku arrives and grabs the pot full of Senzu Beans. Yajirobe asks Goku if he wants to play, but Goku says he is in a hurry, and teleports back. Bulma feeds Future Trunks a Senzu Bean, and he eventually opens his eyes. As he sees Goku and hears his voice, he begins to have flashbacks of Black, and the deaths of Future Bulma and Future Mai. Suddenly, an angry Future Trunks jumps out of bed and attacks Goku, surprising everyone. Goku is also surprised and confused as he blocks the attack.

[[File:Trunksattacksgoku.png|thumb|right|Thinking he failed to travel back in time, Future Trunks attacks Goku believing he is Goku Black]]
Future Trunks, angry, has attacked Goku, thinking he is Black. However, a slap on the head from Bulma caused him to regain his composure. Future Trunks is surprised to see Goku alive, as he had died in the Cell Games and was revived long after Future Trunks returned to his alternate timeline. Future Trunks apologized to Goku for attacking him. Bulma asks Future Trunks what is going on, and Future Trunks kneels in front of Bulma, relieved he made it to the past successfully, then greets Vegeta. Beerus approaches the younger Trunks, confirming his name is also Trunks, and realizing that someone has been messing with time. Pilaf and the gang deduce that there is some kind of scandal going on, as Bulma silences them, saying that she and Vegeta are the parents of both of them as they are one in the same. Future Trunks and Trunks then exchange greetings. Future Trunks is surprised to see Mai, then picks up his sword. Bulma proudly explains the time machine is one of her inventions, while Future Trunks tells Trunks that they actually first met when Trunks was a baby. Whis is surprised that mortals are capable of creating time machines, but says that traveling through time is a serious crime.

In the alternate timeline, Goku Black is searching for Future Trunks' ki, but is frustrated that he completely disappeared, creating more havoc on the Earth. The ring of time he is wearing starts to react. In the present timeline, Whis explains the reason why time travel is prohibited, even among the gods. Future Trunks is surprised to learn that Beerus and Whis are gods. Beerus comments that destroying them might be the way to go, but Bulma explains to him that the person who created the time machine was not her, but another her. Future Trunks begs Whis, thinking he is a god, however he points to Beerus. Future Trunks learns that Beerus is the God of Destruction, but says that Whis looks more like a god, which frustrates Beerus. Goku asks for Beerus to let this slide, and Beerus says he will if he is fed something that he has never eaten before. Bulma gives Beerus and Whis some fish sausage, and they agree to let it slide. Bulma then gives some to the rest of the gang.

Krillin and Piccolo, after harvesting all of the lettuce, are resting and reminiscing about Krillin's time training with Master Roshi. Chi-Chi and Goten appear, telling Krillin and Piccolo that Future Trunks' time machine has appeared. Krillin and Piccolo wonder if something bad happened in the future again, and they fly to Capsule Corporation. Goten tries to follow them, but Chi-Chi stops him, telling him he has to study.

[[File:DaburaVsFutureTrunks.png|thumb|left|Future Trunks recalls fighting Future Dabura]]
At Capsule Corp, Bulma is analyzing the time machine, as Pilaf plans to use the time machine to pick up some money he dropped a long time ago. Bulma slaps his hand away from the controls, then tells him that that the time machine has no fuel, realizing that even Future Trunks cannot return to his own time. Bulma is flustered by how her future counterpart thinks, as she finds a notebook in the time machine. Vegeta and Goku ask if Majin Buu appeared in the future. Future Trunks explains that Future Dabura and Future Babidi did appear, but with instructions from Future Supreme Kai, he was able to kill both of them, preventing Majin Buu's resurrection. He then explains his reason behind suddenly attacking Goku, as he believed he failed to travel through time and thought Goku was Goku Black, who introduced himself as Goku. Future Trunks calls him Goku Black because he wears black clothes. Vegeta and Goku are shocked at this. The day Goku Black appeared, he said he would "annihilate the Earthlings for the sake of justice", then proceeding to cause worldwide destruction, having already destroyed a number of planets and their inhabitants. Bulma is surprised to learn her future counterpart was killed, and Vegeta berates Trunks, as a proud Saiyan, turning his back on Goku Black and running to the past. Bulma then interrupts him, saying there is a message in the notebook written by Future Bulma, explaining the theories and concepts behind the time machine. Bulma, Vegeta and Goku resolve to go to the future and defeat Goku Black, which Future Trunks is happy about.

[[File:SSJ3 Goku blocks SSJ2 Future Trunks' High Strike.png|thumb|right|Goku spars with Future Trunks]]
Goku asks Future Trunks to spar with him, wanting to know where he stands against Goku Black. They both proceed to transform to Super Saiyan 2. Their powerful energy causes shockwaves around the surrounding areas, including a huge wind which flusters the humans in West City. Bulma uses her technology to create a large, invisible force field around Future Trunks and Goku, saying they can go all-out without causing any damage to anything. Future Trunks attacks Goku, who says Future Trunks is amazingly strong, however Future Trunks replies that he is nowhere near as strong as Goku Black, who powered up every time they fought. Goku says he will also do that, and Future Trunks is surprised to see Goku transform into Super Saiyan 3. Future Trunks says he will use his max power, and attacks Goku with his sword, causing the force field to be destroyed. Future Trunks is shocked to see Goku block his sword with his fingers, despite him using his full power. Goku knocks Future Trunks back, and knocks him down to the ground, defeating him. Goku is surprised to know that Future Trunks has gotten that much stronger all by himself, even though Goku Black is said to be stronger than him. Goku is then excited about how strong Goku Black is. Krillin and Piccolo arrive and greet Future Trunks, until a thunderstorm suddenly appears. A portal is opened, and Goku Black arrives, which surprises Future Trunks. Goku and Goku Black officially meet.

[[File:Black vs Goku aura.png|thumb|left|Goku fights with Goku Black]]
Goku Black, who followed Future Trunks to the past and emerged in front of the Z Fighters, realized Future Trunks disappeared because he traveled through time. Whis tells Beerus to look at Goku Black's right hand, and Beerus notices the Time Ring. Goku Black looks around and recognizes Vegeta and Beerus as the God of Destruction. Future Trunks, demanding how Goku Black got here, began to assault him, but Vegeta stops him, saying he cannot beat him. Goku immediately flies up and confronts Goku Black, excited to fight him. Goku Black accepts, wishing to fight Goku "in this body". Goku Black then dismisses Goku for asking what that means, firing a Ki Blast at Goku, who blocks it, but is pushed back to a deserted rocky area. Piccolo asks who he is, and Bulma says that he is her enemy. Piccolo, along with Future Trunks, Vegeta and Krillin all fly away to watch the fight. Beerus says that a Goku vs. Goku bout seems rather interesting.

[[File:Goku blocks black.jpg|thumb|right|Goku blocks an attack]]
At the rocky area, Goku asks Goku Black if that was all of his strength, then transforms into Super Saiyan 2. The two starts fighting while Whis broadcasts the fight with his staff for those who didn't fly from Capsule Corporation to watch. Goku Black emerges from Goku's attack unharmed, and powers up, which causes the portal he came through to convulse. As the two fight again, Krillin points out that Goku Black's ki keeps increasing. Future Trunks wonders why Goku is not using the power he used to defeat him, and Vegeta informs him that Goku has a bad habit of not fighting seriously at the beginning. Goku tells Goku Black he is waiting for his full power, and Goku Black tells him there is no point to rush things and wants to have more fun. Beerus notes that this is not Goku vs. Goku, as Goku Black's ki feels different. Goku says he will force him to use his full power, and starts to fight again, but is knocked back. When the portal keeps convulsing, Goku Black is distracted by some feeling, and Goku kicks him all the way back to Capsule Corporation. Goku Black, saying that this pain will make him even stronger, power ups even further and knocks Goku away. The force from the attack knocks over the time machine, which Goku Black then recognizes.

[[File:Push back.jpg|thumb|left|The Time Portal pulls Goku Black back]]
Goku immediately attacks back, and the two exchange punches, but Goku Black starts to feel the same pain again as the time portal starts to pull him back. Goku powers down and asks what is going on, and Goku Black wonders if the time distortion is returning to normal. Before Goku Black is pulled back into the portal and disappears, he destroys the time machine. Whis explains that Goku Black's Time Ring responded to the time distortion created by Future Trunks, and brought him to the past, however his time was short-lived and Goku Black was forced back to the alternate timeline when the distortion fixed itself. Collapsing, Goku Black is then overjoyed to "embed" Goku's fighting style into himself, and laughs once he strands Future Trunks in the past due to destroying his time machine.

Back in the past, Future Trunks is devastated over his destroyed time machine, realizing Goku Black returned to the alternate timeline and he will annihilate all of humanity with no one able to stop him. Goku asks Future Trunks how strong Goku Black was compared to in the alternate timeline, and Future Trunks replies that he was a little stronger. Vegeta assures Future Trunks that not only Goku's, but Vegeta's true power is far greater than what was shown. However, Goku says the same for Goku Black, realizing that his ki kept growing rapidly during the fight. Pilaf and the gang, posing as firemen, pour water on the fire on the time machine to put it out. Trunks asks Bulma if she can fix the time machine, and Bulma tells him it is impossible for her to from scratch, even with the notes left from Future Bulma. However, Bulma gets an idea, and rushes to find something in her office. Beerus comments that with a destroyed time machine, humans can no longer manipulate time so easily. Whis tells the others about the Time Ring Goku Black was wearing, revealing that only a Supreme Kai is allowed to have those.

Piccolo asks if Goku Black is a Supreme Kai, but Beerus says a Supreme Kai would not have Goku's exact appearance. Future Trunks asks Whis to lend him a Time Ring to return to the future, but Beerus reiterates that only a Supreme Kai possesses one. Whis notes that with a Time Ring, one can travel to the future temporarily and return to the past, but traveling to the past should have been impossible. Krillin recalls Whis rewinding time to correct Frieza's destruction of the Earth, but Whis reminds him that he can only rewind time, and only by 3 minutes. Future Trunks looks at his charred time machine, disappointed that he could not follow through with Future Bulma's promise. Vegeta approaches him, and while looking forward, tells him not to give up.

[[File:DBS523.png|180px|right]]
Bulma, looking exhausted and ravaged, tells the others that hope is not yet lost, and reveals that she was looking for a capsule. She throws it, and everyone is surprised to see Future Trunks' other time machine, the one used by Cell to travel to the past. In the alternate timeline, Future Mai is revealed to be alive, and was just knocked unconscious.

Goku, Bulma, and the gang prepare to head to the future in the other time machine. As they do Trunks tells them about how he met Mai in the future and his battles against Goku Black.

Bulma is currently working on repairing the time machine. Mai and Shu are handing her things she call for, working hard for Future Trunks' sake. Bulma asks Mai to get her something from Laboratory 2, and Trunks offers to lead her there. Dr. Briefs is repairing something else while Pilaf is watching. Vegeta is violently training in the Gravity Room, vowing to never forgive Goku Black for killing his wife. Goku and Beerus loudly exclaim how hungry they are while Whis is observing a recording of Goku's earlier fight with Goku Black. Future Trunks is laying in bed when he wakes up after having a nightmare about Goku Black killing Future Mai. He gets up and asks Bulma how the time machine repairs are going, and she answers that she's making progress.

[[File:Gohan and Trunks.jpg|thumb|left|Trunks meets with Gohan]]
Bulma says she figured out how to compose the time machine's energy source, saying that it will take a full day to save up enough to fill the tank. Future Trunks is surprised, as he tells Bulma that in the alternate timeline it took nearly a year to fill up half the tank. Future Trunks offers his help but Bulma says she's fine as the "freeloaders" are helping. Bulma tells Future Trunks to change out of his dirty clothes. Outside, Krillin and Piccolo are doing yard work as Future Trunks approaches them and asks how Gohan is doing. Piccolo shoots down the idea of Gohan going to the future, as he has become a scholar and distanced himself from fighting. Future Trunks tells them that Gohan was his teacher. He recalls Future Gohan knocking him out and after he woke up, finding Future Gohan's dead body and attaining his Super Saiyan form. Krillin suggests that Future Trunks go meet Gohan, but Piccolo says he is currently at a conference. They hand Future Trunks a map to Gohan's area of work, and he waits there as Gohan walks past him and recognizes him. Future Trunks is surprised to see Gohan, noting he cannot sense the brimming power from him. They then eat a couple of ice cream cones as Gohan invites Future Trunks back to his house.

[[File:DBS526.png|180px|right]]
Gohan introduces Future Trunks to Videl and Mr. Satan. Future Trunks knows who Mr. Satan is due to his appearance in the Cell Games, but Mr. Satan interrupts him, saying he must be famous in the future. Gohan introduces Future Trunks to Pan, who sprays her bottle at him playfully. Videl apologizes while Pan does the same to Mr. Satan and Gohan. Pan then levitates in the air, and Future Trunks is surprised but he realizes that she is Gohan's daughter. Gohan calls for Pan to come down as he dons his Great Saiyaman costume. Gohan catches Pan as he and Videl invite Future Trunks to stay for dinner. Videl is cooking, Gohan is finishing his conference report, and Mr. Satan shows Future Trunks recordings of his victory rallies. Future Trunks asks himself what he is doing as the future is in danger. Mr. Satan is called by Videl so he asks Future Trunks to watch Pan, who playfully hits him and pulls his hair.

Gohan and Future Trunks are outside with Pan as Gohan says he does need to be stricter with her but gets soft when he looks at her face. Future Trunks watches Gohan play with Pan and grows warm inside for seeing Gohan so happy. Videl calls Gohan and Future Trunks for dinner. Future Trunks thinks to himself how life would have been if Goku Black never showed up. As Future Trunks eats dinner and says goodbye to Gohan and the others, he is inspired and finds out what he is fighting for. Later that night, Bulma and the others are eating dinner and Future Trunks shows up in his new outfit. He asks where Goku is, and Krillin says that he and the Gods went to Universe 10, having analyzed Goku Black's peculiar ki. Somewhere in Universe 10, a green-skinned man appears, who happens to wear clothes quite similar to Black.

===Visiting Universe 10===
Goku, Beerus, and Whis head off to the Sacred World of the Kais of Universe 10. Whis has an idea that he knows Black's true identity and reveals that Zamasu is Kai who is a fighting genius and the apprentice to the Supreme Kai of Universe 10. Goku becomes excited at challenging him while irritating Beerus so much that he threatens to push him off. Meanwhile, when pouring tea for Gowasu, Zamasu strikes up a conversation with him about humans. He says that he wants to destroy them, but Gowasu says that isn't his decision and that Kais are not allowed to interfere with creation. Whis, Beerus, and Goku arrive at the Sacred World of the Kais and Zamasu is surprised at Goku for being on the Sacred World. Whis notes this is the first time he has ever met Goku. Zamasu clearly doesn't want him there and almost attacks Goku, but Gowasu stops him from doing it and pardons him.

[[File:Dragon-ball-super-zamasu.jpg|thumb|left|Zamasu and Gowasu of Universe 10]]
Once that is done, Whis gets Gowasu up to speed about Black and tells him that he was no kai, but somehow possesses a time ring. Zamasu didn't know about time rings yet. Beerus then tells Gowasu that Black looks a lot like Goku, surprising him at this. Beerus asks where he keeps the time rings, and Gowasu says that there are in the temple. Beerus wanted confirmation so Gowasu made Zamasu lead Beerus, Whis, and Goku to the temple, where time rings were kept. Goku continues to beg Zamasu to fight him, but Zamasu declines. However, to Zamasu's dismay, Gowasu insists Zamasu fight him, telling him it's a part of his training. Gowasu says Zamasu should hold back, but Beerus tells him it will cost him his life if he does so. The battle starts off with Goku going Super Saiyan 2 against Zamasu. Both Gowasu and Zamasu are both surprised when they see this and Whis tells Gowasu that it is Super Saiyan. Zamasu was wondering how humans had that power. Goku tells him that he hasn't fought a god since Beerus and Zamasu is very surprised at this development. Once the battle begins, Goku throws a punch at Zamasu, who catches it and throws it to the side. Zamasu throws a chop to the neck, but Goku rebounds an energy ball at his hand. Then Goku, Beerus, and Whis notices the similarities between Zamasu Black's ki. Goku then begins pushing Zamasu back, who questions how could a human be this strong. Goku delivers a swift punch to end the match and compliments Zamasu for how strong he was. Zamasu was about to attack Goku but Gowasu stopped him. Beerus yawns and gets ready to go home since he saw the rings.

On the way home, Whis says Zamasu was suppressing his cold heart and it showed enough evidence to prove Zamasu was Black. Beerus says he should have destroyed him, but Goku says he wasn't such a bad guy, causing Beerus to say that Goku is too trusting. While they were walking back to the celestial tree, Gowasu asks Zamasu if he has cleared the distrust of mortals in his heart, but Zamasu says that he is ashamed at his inadequacy. While Zamasu is pouring tea for Gowasu, he says he will never forget Son Goku.

[[File:Future Trunks and Vegeta Training.jpg|thumb|right|Future Trunks trains with his father]]
Bulma and her team put the finishing touches to the rebuilt Time Machine. Meanwhile, Vegeta wants to test Future Trunks' power to see how strong his son had become. Future Trunks proves to be no match for Vegeta at his full power. Future Trunks is outmatched in every way. However, Future Trunks finds this fact reassuring. Knowing how powerful Vegeta and Goku have become, he is certain that Goku Black will not be much of a threat. Vegeta is disappointed and angry with Future Trunks. Vegeta believes that Saiyans should continually strive to grow stronger and not only when enemies present themselves. On Beerus' planet, Beerus and Whis are about to eat dinner. Suddenly, Zeno contacts them and tells them that he wishes to meet Goku, which shocks Beerus and Whis.

On Beerus' planet, a greatly worried Beerus is sitting on a rock as Goku teleports in front of him, asking what did he want him for. Suddenly grabbing and pinching Goku's cheek, Beerus tells him that Zeno wants to see him. Goku wonders if it is about the universal tournament, but reminds Beerus and Whis that he is low on time as the Time Machine is about to be fixed soon. Beerus shoots him down, telling him that if Zeno says immediately, Goku must go see him immediately. Whis tells him that the trip to Zeno's Palace will take two days, and Goku is flustered that it would take that long. Whis then suggests that they go meet with the Supreme Kai, as he can take them to Zeno's Palace in an instant. Beerus orders Whis to accompany Goku, as he himself refuses to go. Beerus then grabs Goku's head and reminds him that the fate of the universe rests on Goku's behavior towards Zeno. Goku assures Beerus that nothing will go wrong and he will get it over with quickly.

[[File:"Future" Trunks Saga - EP55 2.png|thumb|left|Beerus warns Goku]]
Meanwhile, at Capsule Corporation, Bulma and Dr. Briefs are repairing the time machine as Bulma happily announces that repairs are complete and she can begin charging the machine. Mai gleefully races to go inform Future Trunks, but Bulma stops her, saying that he is currently resting after intense training with Vegeta. Back on Beerus' planet, Beerus asks if Goku really intends to meet Zeno with his current Gi, and tells Goku to wear something more formal, but Goku calls it annoying. Whis says he will apologize and say they were in a hurry. Beerus also tells Goku to keep the entire time machine and Goku Black situation a secret from Zeno, knowing that he is bound to get angry if he hears about it. Beerus reminds Whis to watch over Supreme Kai, and Goku is surprised that Beerus is worrying about someone other than himself. Whis tells Goku that the Supreme Kai and God of Destruction are a set, so if one dies, the other will also die. Beerus berates Whis for telling Goku something so important, and Goku thinks about beating the Supreme Kai so Beerus would also be beaten, but he says that wouldn't be very fun. Goku then teleports with Whis to the Sacred World of the Kais.

In Universe 10, Zamasu and Gowasu are spectating the actions of the Babari-seijin, until one of them suddenly shows up behind them and attacks. Zamasu easily blocks the attack and sends the beast flying. Ignoring Gowasu's protests, Zamasu kills the beast by bisecting it with an Energy Blade. Back at the Sacred World of the Kais, Gowasu berates Zamasu for his actions.

[[File:Playing.jpg|thumb|right|Goku playing with Zeno]]
Back in Universe 7, Supreme Kai is flustered upon hearing Goku and Whis' request. Kibito and Elder Kai wonder about this, also requesting Goku to watch his attitude. Supreme Kai then uses a technique to instantly teleport himself, Goku and Whis to Zeno's palace, where the Great Priest is awaiting their arrival. After exchanging greetings, the Great Priest leads the group to Zeno. As they are walking, Goku notes that the Great Priest feels strong, and Whis tells him that he has one of the five highest power levels in all the universes, but also requests that Goku does not do something rude as in ask to fight him. Goku is surprised to hear that even Whis cannot stand up to him. The group then teleports directly in front of Zeno in his main room, and Zeno happily greets Goku as the others bow to Zeno. Goku asks what Zeno wanted from him, and Zeno says that he wanted a friend. Surprised at Goku's nonchalant reaction, Supreme Kai speaks for him and says that Goku is thrilled to be Zeno's friend, but Zeno tells him to be quiet. Goku then says that he will refer to Zeno as "All-chan" as he says that Zeno can refer to him as just Goku. Zeno asks what Goku wanted to play, but Goku tells him that he is busy and he can play once he is finished with his business. Angry at Goku's rudeness, Zeno's attendants prepared to attack, but Zeno tells them to be quiet or he will wipe them out, prompting them to apologize. Goku promises Zeno to visit him after, even bringing someone with him that would make an even better friend, and suggests Zeno should visit Earth one day. In response, Zeno gives Goku a button, telling him that when he presses it, Zeno will instantly teleport to him. They both say goodbye as Goku, Whis and Supreme Kai teleport back to Universe 7. Supreme Kai asks Goku who he was referring to as a friend, and Goku reveals he didn't have anyone in mind, and if he didn't say so, Zeno probably wouldn't have let him go.

[[File:"Future" Trunks Saga - EP55 25.png|thumb|left|Goku, Vegeta and Future Trunks arrive in the future]]
Goku and Whis teleport back to Beerus' planet, and Beerus is flustered over Goku's casual nickname for Zeno. In Universe 10, Zamasu and Gowasu have a conversation over watching over humans and the properties of good and evil, as Gowasu notices Zamasu's pot of tea brewing due to Zamasu's unpleasant words. Gowasu then tells Zamasu to brew a new pot of tea. Back on Earth, Bulma reveals the newly repaired time machine. Vegeta, Goku and Future Trunks then climb into the time machine and prepare to travel to the future. As they arrive, Goku is surprised to see the alternate timeline look so bleak and destroyed. Future Trunks is surprised to see that Future Mai's body is not where she collapsed.

===Confrontation in the Future===
Goku, Vegeta and Future Trunks arrive in the alternate timeline after the Time Machine has been repaired. Shortly after arriving, Goku is suddenly attacked by members of Earth's Resistance. Future Trunks uses his sword to cut the missiles fired at Goku, prompting Vegeta to smirk proudly. The soldiers prepare to attack once more, but Future Trunks tells them to stop as Goku is not Goku Black. The soldiers recognize Future Trunks and exchange greetings with him, also asking him for his autograph. They apologize to Goku for mistaking him for Goku Black, and also slyly comment on Vegeta's mean face. As Future Trunks properly introduce Goku and Vegeta to the soldiers, the soldiers note that they must be warriors from the past sent to reinforce them against Goku Black. Future Trunks is surprised to hear this, as only he, Future Mai and Future Bulma know about the time machine. After looking at Future Mai's discarded hat, Future Trunks asks them who told them about this, and they reply that Future Mai did.

[[File:"Future" Trunks Saga Ep59 7.png|thumb|right|Haru and Maki]]
At an underground subway station, used as the Earth's resistance headquarters, Future Mai is tending to a soldier's injuries as Future Trunks reunites with her, relieved that she is alive. She tells the group about the resistance army's fight with Goku Black, how their past base was destroyed, and her inspiring the soldiers to survive as Future Trunks will return with reinforcements. Future Trunks asks Future Mai if she protected everyone, but as she reveals to him the remaining civilians, she tears up and says she couldn't protect everyone. Goku comforts her, telling her she did all she could and she has nothing to be ashamed of. A little girl appears in front of Future Mai, but as Goku says hi to her, she is frightened as she runs and hides behind her older brother. Future Trunks walks up to the two kids and makes them smile by making silly faces, also comforting the other civilians. Vegeta is proud of Future Trunks' treatment of the civilians, telling them to make some room as he throws a capsule, revealing a giant banquet of freshly made food made by Bulma, surprising everyone. Vegeta then gives Future Mai a couple more capsules, telling her they are full of other stuff they can use for their leisure, as Future Mai happily thanks him. Goku is surprised to see Future Yajirobe also eating, and Future Trunks wonders how he survived the battle with the Androids. Future Yajirobe said that Future Korin gave him the last Senzu Bean as he was close to dying. A soldier mocks Future Yajirobe by saying that he always hid during the battles to eat food, prompting the other soldiers to laugh at him.

Later, Future Mai thanks Goku and Vegeta for their help, but Goku reminds her that they still have to defeat Goku Black for there to be true peace. Vegeta announces that he will deal with Goku Black alone, but despite his protests, engages Goku in a game of rock-paper-scissors, much to Future Trunks and Future Mai's confusion. Vegeta wins the battle as Future Trunks asks Vegeta if he could join in the fight. Vegeta tells him that he has Future Mai and the world to look after, and if anything happens to him and Goku, he and Future Mai can return to the past. The three Saiyans then fly away, ready to do battle with Goku Black.

[[File:"Future" Trunks Saga - EP56 18.png|thumb|left|Goku Black notices the Saiyans arrive]]
Goku Black is seen embracing the bleak world, saying that his utopia is almost here as he has to deal with the rest of the humans. Vegeta fires a ki blast in the air in order to inform Goku Black of their location, and Goku Black uses the light to confront them. Goku Black says that he thought he destroyed the time machine, as Vegeta immediately transforms into a Super Saiyan Blue to do battle. Future Trunks notes Goku Black's unsurprised expression, wondering if Goku Black has seen the form somewhere before. Goku Black applauds Vegeta, telling him that he must have trained well to ascend to such a level, teleporting in front of Vegeta without the Saiyan prince instantly reacting. Vegeta, surprised, realizes that Goku Black is far stronger than when he last fought with Goku. Vegeta then prepares to assault Goku Black, launching him far away with a barrage of hard punches. Goku describes how weird it feels seeing someone with his exact face getting punched, now knowing how Vegeta felt when Goku fought with Copy-Vegeta on Planet Potaufeu. Future Trunks asks Goku if Goku Black really is a god like Zamasu because he referred to Vegeta as a "mere human". Vegeta knocks Goku Black into the ground and further assaults him, but Goku Black, unaffected by the attacks, smirks at Vegeta, who suddenly senses something. Goku Black then kicks Vegeta hard, knocking him back to where Goku and Future Trunks are standing. Goku Black compliments Vegeta's ability, then prepares to show the Saiyans something as he powers up, revealing his new transformation, Super Saiyan Rosé.

[[File:Black Super Saiyan Rose.jpg|thumb|right|Goku Black reveals his new form, Super Saiyan Rose]]
Goku Black reveals that he has fully mastered Goku's powers and that he is now at a level above the Saiyans. Vegeta reminds Goku Black that he is his opponent and attacks him again, catching one of Goku Black's punches and preparing to punch him. Vegeta is then stabbed clean through the chest from an Energy Blade from Goku Black. As Vegeta is knocked out and falls to the ground, Goku Black calls him the "appetizer to the "opening course". Noting that the "appetizer" made him stronger, he will then take care of the "main dish" (referring to Goku) and rise to greater heights. Goku immediately transforms into Super Saiyan Blue and tells Future Trunks to look after Vegeta. As the two fight, Future Trunks wonders if they are evenly matched, but Vegeta weakly comments that they aren't as Goku is knocked to the ground in one hard blow. Goku Black begins charging a Black Kamehameha, but is interrupted by the arrival of Zamasu (albeit his future counterpart, much to the surprise of the three Saiyans. Future Zamasu reminds Goku Black that he will finish off Goku.

Future Zamasu, has appeared standing next to Goku Black, which leaves Goku, Future Trunks and Vegeta shocked. Goku realizes the two are allies, but Future Zamasu corrects him saying they are kindred spirits. Vegeta collapses from the hole in his chest from Goku Black's attack, and Future Trunks confirms he fell unconscious as he can still feel his ki. Future Trunks realizes that since the two are standing side-by-side, Goku Black and Zamasu are not actually the same person, and wonders just who Goku Black is. Future Zamasu exclaims that the just world he is longing for will soon come to fruition, and Goku powers up and engages Future Zamasu in battle, his punch blocked by Future Zamasu's Energy Blade. Goku thinks to himself that things feel different compared to when he fought Zamasu in the present timeline. The two fight an evenly-matched battle, but eventually Goku Black joins the battle, and together they drive Goku into a corner. Future Zamasu exclaims that Goku is his prey, but Goku Black says that his body has a strong desire to kill Goku that he cannot go against.

[[File:Ftrunksandgoku.jpg|thumb|left|Goku and Future Trunks side-by-side]]
Future Zamasu and Goku Black begin to fight Goku again, but they are interrupted by Super Saiyan 2 Future Trunks, who blocks Goku Black's attack with his sword. After exclaiming he will beat both of them, Future Trunks fights with Goku Black and knocks him back, and Goku knocks Future Zamasu back. Future Mai, watching the battle from afar, is worried about Future Trunks. Goku Black and Future Zamasu emerge again, and the four engage in an intense match. Goku is being overwhelmed by Goku Black, surprised that he can also teleport. Future Trunks succeeds in stabbing Future Zamasu with his sword, but is surprised to see his wound instantly heal. Goku Black tries to attack Future Trunks but he is stopped by Goku. Future Trunks pushes Future Zamasu back and fires a Final Flash at him, shocked to see him emerge from the smoke unharmed. The corrupt Supreme Kai reveals he has an immortal, ultimate body befitting of him. Future Trunks begin to wonder what to do when Goku lands next to him. Future Zamasu says it is time for them to receive their retribution as Goku Black charges a Black Kamehameha from behind them. Before they can get out of the way, Future Zamasu captures them both and holds them in place. Goku Black fires the attack at the three of them, causing a huge explosion, and Goku and Future Trunks lay on the ground defeated while Future Zamasu is unharmed.

Both beaten, Future Trunks is perplexed that even Goku was defeated and wonders what they should do. Goku Black and Zamasu prepare a team attack to finish off the two Saiyans, but the attack is destroyed by Vegeta, having transformed into a Super Saiyan Blue and fired a God Final Flash, but Vegeta falls back to the ground unconscious. Goku Black and Future Zamasu soon find out that Goku and Future Trunks escaped in the confusion, and they decide to finish off Vegeta. Future Yajirobe saved Goku and Future Trunks, dragging them both back to the base of Earth's Resistance. He explains that he is dragging them because he cannot fly like they can, and he could only take two people with him. Goku Black and Future Zamasu prepare to finish off Vegeta when soldiers of Earth's resistance fire tear gas at them. While they fly upwards to escape it, Future Mai, wearing a mask, appears and picks Vegeta up. Future Mai meets with the others and thanks Future Yajirobe for saving Goku and Future Trunks, then Future Trunks thanks her for saving Vegeta.

[[File:"Future" Trunks Saga - Ep57 30.png|thumb|right|Everyone returns to the present]]
Future Mai gets the box of capsules from Future Trunks' pocket and brings out the time machine. Goku Black begins searching for the Saiyans' ki, but notes that they are suppressing their ki enough so that it cannot be distinguished from the humans. Future Mai begins charging the time machine as she seats the knocked out Future Trunks, Vegeta and Goku in it. As the time machine prepares to leave, Future Trunks wakes up and Future Mai jumps out, while Future Trunks asks what she is doing and tells her to go with them, not wanting to leave her behind again. While Future Mai smiles at him, she thinks to herself that Future Trunks needs to survive no matter what. Black Goku and Future Zamasu spot the time machine and prepare to intercept, but are too late as the time machine disappears. Future Zamasu says they will return eventually, and once they do they will meet their end.

In the present timeline, Trunks is laying down as he sees the time machine appear, and the beaten and unconscious Goku, Vegeta and Future Trunks fall out. Trunks calls for Bulma, and they both are flustered at Vegeta's status. In Universe 10, Gowasu is watching the battle between Goku and Hit from the Universe 6 and 7 Gods of Destruction Selection Martial Arts Competition on a television as Zamasu appears with his tea. Also watching, Zamasu watches Goku transform into a Super Saiyan Blue, and wonders to himself how Goku, a "mere human", is able to clad himself in godly ki. He then asks Gowasu about the Super Dragon Balls shown on the screen, and Gowasu tells him about collecting them and getting any wish granted. Later, on Zuno's planet, Zamasu appears, after knocking back Zuno's attendant, demanding to know from him everything he knows about the Super Dragon Balls.

[[File:"Future" Trunks Saga - Ep58 2.png|thumb|left|Zamasu threatens Zuno]]
Zamasu is paying a visit to Zuno's planet, interested in hearing everything Zuno knows about the Super Dragon Balls. During Zuno's explanation, an impatient Zamasu threatens Zuno, claiming he can erase Zuno in an instant if he desired, demands to know how the Super Dragon Balls can be used, uninterested in their appearance and origins. Zuno complies, explaining to Zamasu how the Super Dragon Balls are used to grant any wish, also telling him the words needed to summon Super Shenron, and that he has to wait the entire lifespan of a cockroach (one year in time) to use them, due to Beerus already using them recently. Zamasu also asks Zuno for their location, and to tell him about Goku.

On Earth, at Capsule Corporation, Bulma feeds the beaten Goku, Vegeta and Future Trunks each a Senzu Bean, and they wake up. Goku jumps up and wants to go back to the alternate timeline for another fight, but Bulma explodes, chastising the three Saiyans for going to the future without Senzu Beans. Goku was supposed to be carrying them, but recalls that he went to the bathroom before going to the future, and left the Senzu Beans there. Trunks is surprised that the three couldn't defeat Goku Black, but they explain that not only did he assume a new transformation, Super Saiyan Rose, he also had Zamasu with him as an ally. Goku still wants to return, but Vegeta asks him how can he defeat enemies who cannot take damage. Goku suggests that they can also become immortal by eating a large amount of Senzu Beans, and the others are visibly dumbfounded. Future Trunks walks out with the Pilaf Gang and Trunks, informing them that Future Mai was still alive. Future Trunks shares his determination to return to the future, where Future Mai will be waiting for him. They are interrupted by the arrival of Beerus, Whis and Supreme Kai, who asks where Goku is. The Pilaf Gang serves the three sundaes when Goku, Vegeta and Bulma walk out to meet them. Supreme Kai informs everyone that Zuno has contacted him, saying that Zamasu confronted Zuno and asked him about Goku and the Super Dragon Balls, and Vegeta tells the Gods about Zamasu's appearance in the future, his immortality, and Super Saiyan Rose.

[[File:Future Gowasu Killed.png|thumb|Future Gowasu assassinated by Future Zamasu as speculated by Whis.]]
In Universe 10, Gowasu has ran out of tea, and calls for Zamasu to brew some more, but receives no response. Gowasu realizes Zamasu is gone. Beerus wonders why Zamasu and Goku Black's ki are so similar despite them being different people. Whis comes with a conclusion after hearing Zuno's and the Saiyans' stories. Whis explains that even though Zamasu is a fighting genius, he lost in a match with Goku, and was interested enough about him to ask Zuno. Zamasu is searching for enough power able to assert his justice. Goku then finishes what Whis was about to say, saying that Zamasu asked the Super Dragon Balls to "make him black." Whis further speculates that Zamasu used the Super Dragon Balls to create a copy of Goku as his servant, then a year later, when the Super Dragon Balls were able to be used again, Zamasu made another wish to make him immortal. With Zamasu's immortal body and Goku Black's ability to annihilate humans, they then went on a rampage in the future. Bulma wonders how much patience Zamasu has to wait an entire year to make another wish, but Beerus speculates that he used the Time Ring to travel ahead in time. Beerus then remembers that only official Kaioshins can use the Time Rings, and Zamasu is only an apprentice. The group deduces that Zamasu was somehow promoted to be a Kaioshin, but something awful must have happened to the current Kaioshin, Gowasu. Bulma speculates, then explains to Goku that Zamasu may have killed Gowasu and stole the Time Rings.

Whis says that the fact that Goku Black and Zamasu's ki are similar is still a mystery needed to be solved, and Goku wishes to go see Zamasu. Whis is worried about Gowasu's life. Supreme Kai offers to take the trio to Universe 10, but asks them to act peacefully as Zamasu has (not yet) done anything wrong. Vegeta walks away, uninterested in Zamasu as of now. In the alternate timeline, Future Yajirobe is running, and Future Mai picks him up on her motorcycle and takes him back to the underground shelter. Once arriving, two kids ask her where Future Trunks is, and Future Mai says he went somewhere far away but will return. Members of Earth's Resistance approach Future Mai, worried about what they will do since Goku and Vegeta lost. Future Mai desperately tries to inspire the soldiers, saying they must survive and wait.

[[File:"Future" Trunks Saga - Ep58 27.png|thumb|left|Goku and the others return to Universe 10]]
In Universe 10, Gowasu is approached by Beerus, Whis, Supreme Kai and Goku, who ask where Zamasu is. Gowasu says that Zamasu has been absent all morning, and ask what he did. Goku begins to explain Zamasu's role in the alternate timeline, but Beerus smacks him on the head to silence him. Beerus asks Gowasu if Zamasu's behavior has grown to be even a little suspicious, and Gowasu answers that while Zamasu had doubts about how things are, he is now enlightened. Zamasu appears, apparently calm despite the appearance of Universe 7, telling Gowasu he brought his tea.

Zamasu, bringing Gowasu's tea, politely welcomes the Universe 7 group while wondering to himself why they are here. While Zamasu is brewing Gowasu's tea, Gowasu tells him that they are here to see him. Beerus and Whis tell Zamasu that they returned because Goku wanted to fight him again, but before Goku can say he doesn't recall asking about that, Beerus hits him and tells him to be quiet. Zamasu thinks to himself for a bit then calmly accepts Goku's challenge, claiming he was also unsatisfied with how long their last match ended. Beerus then dismisses the fight while Whis says they must go, as it is time for Beerus' afternoon nap. Whis presents Gowasu a gift: some Great Fortune snacks and some freshly-brewed green tea from Earth. The Universe 7 group leave, but not far from Universe 10, they stop and Whis forms a barrier. Supreme Kai asks how it went, and Whis and Beerus confirm that Zamasu is planning to kill Gowasu, noticing his extreme killing intent. Whis jokingly says Zamasu's killing intent is about as pungent as one of Beerus' farts, prompting the God of Destruction to berate him. Goku says he did not notice anything off about Zamasu's spirit, and Whis says that as the God of Destruction, it's only natural for Beerus to notice, along with Whis. Supreme Kai also did not notice, realizing that Gowasu does not notice, either. Goku suggests that they go back and help, but Beerus and Whis dismisses him, saying that they will not until they find some physical evidence. Whis creates a projected view of Gowasu and Zamasu and the group sit back and watch as Zamasu pours Gowasu some of the green tea. Gowasu drinks the tea, commenting that it calms the heart.

[[File:"Future" Trunks Saga Ep59 4.png|thumb|right|Goku Black at the cabin]]
Meanwhile, in the alternate timeline, at a safe house, Goku Black and Future Zamasu discuss about killing Goku and how they aren't strong enough as opponents. Future Zamasu says if Goku Black kills Goku too quickly, he'd lose an opportunity to grow stronger by adapting to his fighting style, suggesting that he kills Goku slowly and carefully. Future Zamasu asks if it is nice to have immortal bodies due to the Super Dragon Balls. As a response, Goku Black turns into Super Saiyan Rose, and claims he is satisfied with this power and unlimited potential, which is necessary for their plan. Future Zamasu says it is ironic that they are using a "mortal" to go through with their plan to exterminate all mortals. At the Earth's Resistance base, Future Mai looks at the weakened civilians and soldiers and wonders how much longer they will hold out. Haru & Maki approach Future Mai with dumplings, saying they got them from Future Yajirobe. Despite Future Mai claiming she is fine, she is persuaded to eat one with the kids. Future Mai thinks to herself that even if by herself, she must protect their smiles.

In the present timeline, at Capsule Corporation, Bulma is repairing the time machine's transfer device, Vegeta is training in the Gravity Room, and Future Trunks is sitting outside sulking, thinking about how he ran away without Future Mai, again. Pilaf, Mai and Shu, who are watching him from behind a bush, worry about him, and the two boys suggest that Mai go cheer him up. When Pilaf and Shu jokingly act like Mai confessing her love for Future Trunks, Mai angrily yells at them to leave. Trunks, also watching his future counterpart, approaches him. Trunks berates him for moping around after one loss. Future Trunks politely asks Trunks to leave him alone, prompting Trunks to call Future Trunks a coward and he is unable to protect Future Mai that way. Trunks then asks him if he is mad, and challenges him to a fight, turning into a Super Saiyan. When Future Trunks does not move, Trunks agrees to make the first move and punches Future Trunks in the face, knocking him down. Trunks yells at Future Trunks to stand up, since he "is supposed to be a Saiyan" while Future Trunks glares at him.

[[File:Zamasu killed by beerus.png|thumb|left|Zamasu is killed by Beerus]]
Back in Universe 10, Gowasu claims the Universe 7 food is delicious and suggests Zamasu to try some, while Zamasu declines. The Universe 7 group notice Zamasu not taking any action at all, and Goku says he is growing hungry watching Gowasu eat. Whis tells him to be a little more patient. Zamasu walks behind Gowasu and begins to talk to him about his perspective over good and evil, and says that he will one day understand what Gowasu means. When Gowasu takes another bite of the Great Fortune, Zamasu prepares his God Split Cut energy blade, intending to kill him. Gowasu flinches, but it is shown that he choked on the Great Fortune, and washes it down with tea. Zamasu charges his attack again and successfully kills Gowasu. Whis then performs his Temporal Do-Over, going back in time to before Zamasu kills Gowasu. Whis suggests that they do this again, while Goku is confused, but realizes they went back in time. With the proper evidence, the group returns to Universe 10. Before Zamasu kills Gowasu, Whis creates a strong glove around Zamasu's hand to block the attack, shocking the apprentice. Gowasu wonders if that glove is a new item for tapping shoulders, while Zamasu is flustered and notices that the Universe 7 group has returned. Beerus explains to Gowasu that Zamasu tried to kill him, with Whis proving this by removing the glove, revealing Zamasu's energy blade. Gowasu, shocked, orders Zamasu to explain himself. While Zamasu remained silent, Supreme Kai explained Zamasu's plan to get rid of Gowasu, steal the Time Ring, use the Super Dragon Balls to create a fake Goku and wish for immortality, and exterminate all humanity. Zamasu is surprised they know this, and Goku says that they learned everything from going to the future. Zamasu then proclaims that he cannot fall in a place like this and prepares to attack, with Goku taking a fighting stance, but his attack is easily caught by Beerus. Telling him his luck has run out, Beerus raises his hand in front of Zamasu, and says "Hakai", disintegrating Zamasu's entire body, killing him.

Back on Earth, Future Trunks and Trunks have been fighting, and Future Trunks realizes what Trunks is trying to teach him: win, no matter who the enemy is. Future Trunks thanks his younger self while shaking his hand, when Goku and Beerus suddenly crash in-between them with Whis; Goku commenting that they should have asked Supreme Kai to take them back. Beerus tells Future Trunks about Zamasu's death, and with that the future is saved as Goku Black should also disappear. Future Trunks asks if the future is really saved, as the Androids in his timeline did not disappear after the ones in the present were defeated. Beerus says that it is different if a God eliminated another God. Bulma says that it is no laughing matter if nothing in the future changed. Future Trunks says he hopes the future is now safe.

After Beerus explains that due to him killing Zamasu, the future Zamasu should disappear and the alternate timeline should be peaceful again, Future Trunks does not believe the future is safe and remains skeptical. Beerus is frustrated that his words as a god are being doubted as Whis leads him away. Future Trunks decides to go back to the future to check, and as Bulma hands him the capsule with the time machine, tells him to eat a proper meal before he goes. Future Trunks thinks against it, but Goku convinces him.

[[File:"Future" Trunks Saga Ep60 4.png|thumb|Whis excited about the soup]]
While everyone is eating dinner, Whis tells Beerus to try the soup. Beerus remarks it looks like the vomit of the dragons of Planet Gaspa, and he is hesitant to try it, but when he does, he is incredibly happy about the taste, and demands to know why Bulma never fed him anything that good. Trunks notices that Future Trunks is the only one not eating. Goku calls for Trunks, and when both answers, clarifies he meant Future Trunks, telling him that the food is delicious, and Future Trunks starts eating. Goku then says he will go with Future Trunks to check on the future, shutting down the fact said by Bulma that he gets sick while in the time machine. Beerus finds out Goku also does not think that Beerus is right, and Goku says they should still go check, also wanting to fight Zamasu if he is still there. Vegeta says it is dangerous to start fighting without a plan, as they cannot save the future that way, accidentally breaking his fork. Goku says he won't forget the Senzu Beans this time.

Later, as Future Trunks is prepared to leave, Beerus is annoyed that no one believes the future is now safe. Goku offers him to go along, but Beerus declines, believing that a god like him going back and forth in time would change history. Trunks seems to agree with Beerus, but Future Trunks explains to him the desire to travel back in time because the future was in peril. Future Trunks explains to Trunks about time traveling, how the present and the future are two completely different worlds, how he and Trunks are the same person but grew up in different worlds, and how the Android 18 in the present (who married Krillin and started a family) and the Android 18 in the future (who killed the Z-Fighters and caused worldwide destruction) are different. He also explained that he grew up in a world where Goku died from a heart virus and Vegeta was killed by the Androids, but Trunks grew up in a world where they are both alive because Future Trunks traveled back in time and prevented their deaths. Future Trunks thanks Beerus for his actions and for giving him hope, and also asks Vegeta to accompany him to the future. Vegeta agrees, but also tells Future Trunks that if the future really is peaceful now, he should never return to the past again. Future Trunks tells Mai that he will tell Future Mai hello for her, and tells her to take care of his present counterpart. Bulma, handing Goku the Senzu Beans, says she will also go to the future, as someone is gonna need to steer when heading back to the past. She then gives Future Trunks back his original jacket and bandana. With Future Trunks, Goku, Vegeta and Bulma in the time machine, they are all cramped as they leave in it. While they are leaving, Trunks flies after him and yells at the top of his lungs to win.

[[File:"Future" Trunks Saga Ep60 17.png|thumb|left|Future Trunks wakes up Future Mai]]
While traveling, Bulma is fascinated while Goku is already sick. Upon landing, they quickly realize the future did not change and their suspicions were right. Goku falls out of the time machine disoriented, and Future Zamasu and Goku Black immediately sense that they have returned. Future Trunks gives Bulma the capsule with the time machine as a soldier of Earth's Resistance meets the group and tells Future Trunks that Future Mai's life is in danger. They run back to the Resistance base, and see that Future Mai is out cold with every civilian around her. Goku gives Future Trunks a Senzu Bean, and he chews it up and kisses Future Mai so it would go down her throat. Goku is surprised Future Trunks did this, apparently having no idea what a kiss is, and Vegeta berates him for this as he is married. Bulma spots and recognizes Future Yajirobe. Future Mai wakes up and is relieved to see the group has returned. She meets Bulma, and they exchange pleasantries while Bulma hands her capsules with food and supplies. The three Saiyans immediately sense Goku Black and Future Zamasu and they head out to find them.

The two groups soon meet and while Vegeta says things won't go as they did last time, immediately turns Super Saiyan Blue and charges. Goku asks if Vegeta forgot about a plan, and Vegeta says to defeat Goku Black first. Goku Black turns Super Saiyan Rose and the two get into a brief fight. Goku explains to his opponents that they know about Goku Black's identity; Zamasu using the Super Dragon Balls to create a fake Goku. Goku Black says they are wrong and then reveals his true identity: he is Zamasu who has switched bodies with Goku (but kept his own heart and soul) with the Super Dragon Balls, and he has killed the Goku who had his body stolen.

[[File:"Future" Trunks Saga EP61 2.png|thumb|right|Vegeta, Goku and Trunks survive a huge energy blast]]
After Goku Black reveals he is Zamasu, then Goku asks who is the Zamasu standing next to him. Future Zamasu answers that he is the Zamasu from Future Trunks' alternate timeline, and he teamed up with Goku Black (the Zamasu from the past). Goku Black tells Goku about how he, as a god, was pitifully defeated by a "mere human", and developed a hatred for Goku, and combining his body with Zamasu's heart caused him to gain greater strength. When Goku argues that he saw Beerus destroy the present Zamasu, Goku Black re-introduces the Time Ring. As he says that whatever happened with his past self has no effect on his current self, Goku Black re-calls killing Gowasu and taking his Potara earring, making himself the new Kaioshin. Goku Black asks Future Zamasu if he is ready, and Future Zamasu confirms. They both assume the same fighting stance, and charge two ki blasts that merge into a huge blast and fires it at the Saiyans, causing a huge explosion. The Saiyans managed to block the attack, having assumed their Super Saiyan Blue forms and Future Trunks his Super Saiyan 2 form. Goku charges towards Future Zamasu, with Vegeta yelling at him to remember that Future Zamasu is immortal, and blows off Future Zamasu's head, only for it to instantly regenerate. Goku Black turns into a Super Saiyan Rose and uses his Energy Blade, which Goku blocks, but he is kicked into a building. Future Trunks confirms that Goku is all right. Saying that he needed someone with the same heart and understanding to carry out his justice, Goku Black continues his story.

[[File:Black stabbing Goku.png|thumb|left|Goku Black stabs Goku]]
Using the Time Ring, Goku Black traveled to the future and kills Future Gowasu. Future Zamasu, bringing Future Gowasu his tea, sees Goku Black standing over Future Gowasu's corpse, which eventually disintegrates, and is flustered. Goku Black knew that Future Zamasu was planning on killing Future Gowasu, and hands him one Potara earring, saying he is now a Kaioshin. Future Zamasu, revealing his true nature, accepts the earring. Future Zamasu says he then used the Super Dragon Balls to wish for immortality, and in order to ensure that their wish could not be reverted, they destroyed the Super Dragon Balls to prevent anyone else from using them. Goku Black then traveled to each universe and killed every Kaioshin, also indirectly killing every God of Destruction. Being the only two godly forces left in the entire multiverse, Goku Black and Future Zamasu ensure success for their Project Zero Mortals, and they charge towards the Saiyans. Goku, Future Trunks, and Vegeta launch a ki blast barrage at them, but Future Zamasu willingly blocks the attack with his immortal body. The Saiyans are pressured by the pair's assault, and when Future Trunks and Vegeta are both knocked down, the two proceed to gang up on Goku. Having Goku cornered, Future Zamasu asks him if he wants to know what happened to his family.

Goku Black says that he used the Super Dragon Balls to switch bodies with Goku, while Goku was farming with Goten, and the young Saiyan is surprised that Goku suddenly became Zamasu, showing Chi-Chi. They both are surprised and afraid of what Goku has become, and Zamasu (with Goku's body) appears and kills Goku (with Zamasu's body). When Chi-Chi panics and tries to run away with Goten, Zamasu kills them, as well. While he was telling this story, Goku Black stabs Goku through Future Zamasu, pinning him to the wall. Hearing this, Goku grows more and more angry, and powers up, breaking Goku Black's energy blade. Goku Black is fascinated at Goku's power-up, while a furious Goku fights both Future Zamasu and Goku Black and puts them on the defensive. When Goku attacks Goku Black again, Goku Black counters the attack, having increased his power due to taking Goku's powered-up beating, as noted by Future Zamasu. Goku Black creates an even bigger Energy Blade, and stabs Goku numerous times with spears of energy, before making them explode, knocking Goku down on the ground defeated. Future Trunks and Vegeta are cornered by Future Zamasu and Goku Black, and Future Trunks says that he will deal with Goku Black, even if he dies, and asks Vegeta to deal with Future Zamasu. Future Trunks says that Goku Black is doing nothing less but murder in Goku's body, and Goku Black tells him that he is the main reason why he decided to destroy humanity, calling Future Trunks a sinner.

[[File:DRAGON-BALL-SUPER-EPISODE-61-520x293.jpg|thumb|right|Future Trunks' new form, Super Saiyan Anger]]
Goku Black and Future Zamasu recall Future Trunks constantly going back and forth in time, continuously breaking the taboo of Gods, and that the creation of a new Time Ring is the proof of his sins. They recall Future Trunks saving Goku's life from the Heart Virus, saying that if he had died as history decided, Zamasu would not have sought Goku's body. They also mention Future Trunks destroying the Androids, as his actions caused the current events and that everything is his fault. Future Trunks grows angry at their words and Vegeta tells him not to listen to them. Future Trunks powers up and assaults Goku Black, but he is easily repelled and defeated while Vegeta is held back by Future Zamasu. Seeing this, Future Mai rushes for Future Trunks, with Bulma and Future Yajirobe following her. They are stopped by Future Trunks angrily punching the ground, and as he grows more and more angry, he begins to power up into a new Super Saiyan form never seen before, Super Saiyan Anger, surprising everyone. With his new bulky appearance, huge power, and loss of his pupils, Future Trunks declares he will kill Goku Black.

Future Trunks, having obtained a new power due to succumbing to his intense rage, prepares to do battle with Goku Black. Much to Goku Black's surprise, Future Trunks can not only fight on even terms with him, despite being a Super Saiyan Rose, but he can also put the corrupt former Kaioshin on the defensive. Vegeta witnesses as Future Zamasu steps in and, along with Goku Black, gang up on Future Trunks, but the Saiyan is able to fight both of them off. As Future Zamasu is knocked away, Vegeta, as a Super Saiyan Blue, steps in to prevent him from helping Goku Black. Future Trunks knocks Goku Black and blasts him with a huge attack, but Goku Black emerges from the smoke barely harmed, calling Future Trunks "a good dessert". Goku Black proceeds to jump Vegeta with Future Zamasu, defeating the Saiyan prince and knocking him to the ground, further angering Future Trunks. The duo is determined to execute their Project Zero Mortals but are knocked down by a powered-up Future Trunks, who then fires a Masenko at them. The pair are knocked into a building, and Future Trunks attacks them with a barrage of ki blasts. As he is doing this, he tells Vegeta to take Bulma and the beaten Goku and go back to the present timeline in the Time Machine, in order to come up with a plan to win, saying he will hold them off by himself. Vegeta disagrees to this, but Goku weakly mutters that it's the only way to save the future. Vegeta orders Bulma to ready the Time Machine, picks up Goku, and hands Future Mai the Senzu Beans, entrusting her to look after Future Trunks. Goku Black notices the time machine flying off, and tries to blast it, but Future Trunks counters the blast with one of his own. Upon witnessing the Saiyans and Bulma retreat, Goku Black dismisses it, saying they will return in due time, and the corrupt pair direct their attention to Future Trunks.

[[File:"Future" Trunks Saga - EP62 21.png|thumb|left|Vegeta throws down a very injured Goku to be taken to the infirmary]]
In the present timeline, Trunks, Pilaf, Shu, Mai, Beerus and Whis watch as the time machine lands in front of them, with Trunks surprised that Future Trunks isn't with everyone else. The two gods assume that the alternate timeline is now safe due to the destruction of the present Zamasu, but an angry Bulma confronts them and tells them that the alternate timeline did not change at all, despite Beerus' assurance that a god destroying another god would affect the time stream. Beerus is nonchalant at discovering he was wrong, saying that he had a feeling nothing would change due to Future Trunks' words. Bulma is about to hit Beerus but is stopped by Vegeta, tossing the Pilaf Gang the mortally wounded Goku. Vegeta is determined to think of a plan and quickly return to the future, not wanting to waste the time given to them by Future Trunks. As Goku is put into a healing pod, Vegeta explains to the gods the real truth behind Goku Black's identity. With his curiosity satisfied, Beerus tells Whis to take him back home, saying that he disposed of the present Zamasu so he has no place interfering with another timeline's Zamasu, entrusting the rest to everyone else. Whis wishes them good luck as the two gods leave while Bulma yells at them, calling them cowards. Vegeta walks off, telling everyone to leave him alone as he tries to think of a plan.

At Goku's house, Goten is sleeping but he woken up by Trunks knocking on his window. At the police station, Krillin is confronted by Chi-Chi and Gohan, with the former constantly asking Krillin if he knew where Goku was, but Krillin replied that he did not, thinking to himself if he is still dealing with Goku Black. Chi-chi says that she was worried about Goku, and cooked a lot of food for him to eat, which is in a giant pack carried by Gohan. Krillin explains that as a police officer, if he knew anything he would share it to Chi-Chi, and rushes off to go on patrol. Gohan tries to calm Chi-Chi down as they both notice Goten and Trunks flying. At Capsule Corporation, Vegeta is walking and thinking as he overhears Bulma talking with Goten and Trunks, who is determined to go to the alternate timeline and help his future counterpart. Bulma tells him he would not be of help if he did go, and to leave it to Goku. Vegeta is about to silence Bulma as Chi-Chi calls for her (Gohan flying and carrying her). Bulma quickly tells Trunks and Goten to hide as they both land and Chi-Chi asks her where Goku is. Bulma plays innocent and says he has no idea, and Chi-Chi asks her where Goten and Trunks are, as she had seen them flying earlier, worrying about them being delinquents sneaking out so late at night. Shu appears and gives Bulma a status update about the time machine, and she explains to a confused Chi-Chi that the time machine is her newest product. Goten and Trunks crawl away but they are stopped by Vegeta, and Chi-Chi spots them, beginning to scold Goten. Krillin and Piccolo arrive, asking if they defeated Goku Black yet. Chi-Chi asks Bulma what's going on, when Goku appears, with his injuries healed but his stomach empty.

[[File:"Future" Trunks Saga - EP62 30.png|thumb|right|Inside Capsule Corp. after retuning to the present]]
Inside Capsule Corp., everyone is sitting in a room while Goku eats the food Gohan was carrying for Chi-Chi. Bulma explains to everyone about Future Trunks' world being in danger, and a fake Goku rampaging, and Gohan is surprised to hear this as he had no idea Future Trunks was going through it despite his pleasant disposition when he had dinner with his family. Goku says he won't forgive Zamasu for stealing his body and killing Chi-Chi and Goten, but as Chi-Chi panics and checks if Goten is ok, Goku explains it was in another timeline. Chi-Chi asks if Goku beat him, and Goku replies that they were beaten and had to escape to the past twice, and Chi-Chi questions Goku's fatherly duties for not beating the one responsible for killing his wife and son. Piccolo did not realize Goku Black was as strong as he is, having observed his initial fight with Goku, but Vegeta explains that due to Goku Black's Super Saiyan powers and his ability to grow stronger after each fight, along with Future Zamasu's Immortality, they are a perfect pair and cannot be beaten in a proper fight. Bulma tells everyone that Future Trunks is currently fighting both of them on his own, and Goku and Vegeta are stumped and cannot think of a plan. Piccolo suggests using the Evil Containment Wave, explaining to Vegeta that Master Roshi attempted to use it to seal away King Piccolo a long time ago. He suggests the idea of Goku and Vegeta fighting them back and looking for an opening to seal them, saying that they cannot come back out as long as the seal isn't broken. Vegeta asks Bulma how long until the time machine is ready, and she replies less than half a day. Piccolo asks if Vegeta plans to go in the Hyperbolic Time Chamber, and Vegeta says that they can seal them after Vegeta pays them back for everything they have done. Piccolo prepares to demonstrate the Evil Containment Wave to Goku, but Goku uses Instant Transmission to teleport to Kame House and ask Master Roshi to teach it to him. Bulma says everyone else can watch as Piccolo does it.

[[File:"Future" Trunks Saga - EP62 35.png|thumb|left|Goku begins learning the Evil Containment Wave]]
At Kame House, Master Roshi agrees to teach Goku the Evil Containment Wave, wondering who Goku is fighting if he has to rely on that technique. Goku practices the technique on Turtle, attempting to seal him in a container, and manages to do so after a few failures. Master Roshi says he will create a talisman for Goku to use to complete the seal, in exchange for Goku taking him to a place with young girls. Meanwhile, in Universe 10, Beerus and Whis confront Gowasu about the alternate timeline not changing, with Beerus in a bad mood that everyone was on his case about being wrong. Beerus says he can easily destroy Zamasu if he went to the future, but refuses to do so as a God of Destruction has no business crossing the time stream. Gowasu, taking responsibility as he specifically chose Zamasu to be his apprentice, agrees to do something on the matter.

At Capsule Corporation, Bulma is re-fueling the time machine, preparing for the next trip to the alternate timeline, hoping that Future Trunks, who stayed behind to fight, is safe. On Kami's Lookout, Dende and Mr. Popo are on stand-by as they are startled by a giant explosion, caused by Vegeta, who has been training in the Hyperbolic Time Chamber. Vegeta has spent the past half-day (six months in the Time Chamber) training for the rematch against Goku Black, and he has destroyed the Time Chamber, creating a huge crater in Kami's Lookout. Vegeta then flies off. Meanwhile, Goku thanks Master Roshi for teaching him the Evil Containment Wave and creating an urn for the technique, and teleports away.

[[File:"Future" Trunks Saga - EP63 9.png|thumb|right|Future Mai takes aim]]
In the alternate timeline, Future Mai feeds Future Trunks, who is unconscious and injured, a Senzu Bean. When Future Trunks comes to, he realizes it was not Future Mai, it was actually Future Yajirobe, and is startled by the idea of Future Yajirobe mouth-feeding him a Senzu Bean. Future Yajirobe told him the Senzu Bean was grounded up by Haru & Maki, who are relieved to see Future Trunks okay. Future Trunks asks where Future Mai went, and Future Yajirobe said she headed back out as soon as she brought Future Trunks back to the resistance army's base, saying she discovered Goku Black's hideout. At the hideout, Goku Black and Future Zamasu are discussing their plans while waiting for Goku and Vegeta to return. At a distance away, Future Mai and two soldiers spy on the corrupt duo, realizing that getting closer would be dangerous. Future Trunks is seen flying to the hideout, hoping Future Mai does not do anything dumb. Future Mai prepares to use a sniper, equipping it with a special energy bullet left behind by Future Bulma, said to be several times stronger than a normal bullet. Future Mai advises the two soldiers to fall back, but they refuse, saying it would be an honor to die by Future Mai's side, and Future Mai is happy at their resolve. She aims the sniper at Goku Black and pulls the trigger, but the bullet only possessed enough force to knock Goku Black out of his chair; he remained unharmed from the attack. Goku Black and Future Zamasu pinpoint the humans' location and fire a Combined Energy Ball at them, but they are saved by the arrival of Future Trunks.

[[File:Black vs. Trunks.jpg|thumb|left|Future Trunks battles Goku Black]]
Future Mai apologizes to Future Trunks, and Future Trunks tells the soldiers to retreat. He thinks to himself about Future Zamasu's Immortality, realizing that Future Zamasu drops his guard after getting hit by an attack, planning to use that opportunity to assault Goku Black. Future Trunks powers up to his Super Saiyan Anger form and heads into battle, and Goku Black powers up to a Super Saiyan Rosé. Future Trunks pushes back Future Zamasu as he and Goku Black fight head-to-head, using his sword as a decoy to land a series of blows on Goku Black, then pushing him back with a Galick Gun, also destroying the hideout. As it appears that Goku Black has been defeated, Future Trunks directs his attention to Future Zamasu. Future Mai and the two soldiers help Future Trunks out by distracting Future Zamasu with their guns. Future Trunks thinks to himself that he only has enough stamina for one more huge attack, and counters Future Zamasu's attack and holds him in place. Future Trunks, theorizing that Future Zamasu's regeneration must have a limit, uses a Super Explosive Wave attack, but he is stabbed from behind by Goku Black. As Future Trunks falls to the ground defeated, the time machine with Goku, Vegeta and Bulma arrives. Future Trunks is relieved to see the Saiyans return as he falls unconscious.

===Final Battle===
[[File:"Future" Trunks Saga - EP63 20.png|thumb|right|Goku and Vegeta]]
As they get out, Goku and Vegeta immediately sense that Future Trunks' ki is fading. Bulma tells them to hurry while Goku Black and Future Zamasu appear in front of them. Bulma hides in a crater behind them, as Goku Black immediately destroys the time machine to prevent them from escaping again. Vegeta replies to their taunts by saying that this world will be their grave, and that they brought a coffin (referring to the urn) that they have to get used to as it is a little small. Future Mai is with Future Trunks as he wakes up, telling her the others have returned. As Future Zamasu is rambling on, Vegeta asks Goku where the urn is, and Goku is flustered as he realizes the urn was in the time machine and is now destroyed. Bulma secretly uses a water hose to put out the fire on the time machine as the two duos prepare to fight, but they are interrupted by the arrival of Gowasu and Supreme Kai. Future Zamasu and Goku Black are surprised to see him, as he should have been killed, but realize he is from the past as he traveled using a Time Ring. Gowasu says that Beerus told him everything, and that he is ashamed of Zamasu. Goku tells him that the Zamasu he knew is actually Goku Black, causing confusion. So Gowasu started to address Goku Black with the same speech. Goku wonders what happened with Whis when Goku Black reminds everyone that he killed every God, knowing that Whis is stronger than Beerus. Supreme Kai tells him that once a God of Destruction dies, then their attendant, the angel, ceases to exist until a new God appears. Goku Black and Future Zamasu suddenly fire Ki Blasts at Gowasu and Supreme Kai, but they are shielded by Goku and Vegeta, having assumed their Super Saiyan Blue forms. Gowasu is also shocked to learn that the Dragon Balls were also destroyed, and keels over upon learning that the Gods cannot be revived. Goku and Vegeta advise the two Kaioshin to return home, but they insist to stand by and watch the battle. Vegeta decides to fight Goku Black, saying that since he has no qualms fighting the real Goku, he won't lose to the fake one.

[[File:VegetaBeatsBlack.png|thumb|left|Vegeta dominating Goku Black]]
As the two pairs start fighting, Goku Black immediately realizes Vegeta's increased strength and is being pushed back by the Saiyan prince. Future Zamasu, surprised by this, tries to help Goku Black but Goku focuses on preventing the corrupt Kaioshin from helping. Bulma takes the opportunity to bring out a garage from a capsule, saying she will repair the time machine in no time. Future Trunks and Future Mai appear, and Bulma is relieved to see Future Trunks is okay. She then hands Future Trunks some super glue, saying he can fix the urn as he was good at jigsaw puzzles. As Vegeta is blocking every one of Goku Black's attacks and assaulting him relentlessly, furious by his theft of Goku's body; stating that the true Goku worked and fought hard his entire life to get to where he is, and that Black will never be anywhere near as exceptional as Goku himself. As he pulls up Goku Black by his hair and knocks him back, Vegeta powers up as he proudly announces himself as the Prince of all Saiyans as he calls Goku Black an imposter.

Vegeta in his powered-up Super Saiyan Blue form continues to dominate Goku Black on the battlefield, while Goku is keeping Future Zamasu at bay to prevent him from helping his partner. Goku Black is sitting in the building he was thrown in, laughing to himself, calling Vegeta an "arrogant mortal". Goku Black then notices a huge energy wave approaching him, causing a large explosion. Vegeta tells Goku Black to emerge, knowing he's not one to be defeated by that kind of attack while calling him a "miserable thief". Goku Black emerges and confronts Vegeta, saying that the reasoning behind Vegeta's sudden increase of power was from the anger of his son. Goku Black says he must have overlooked it because turning anger into power is a concept only a mortal could think of. Goku Black then creates his Aura Slide energy blade, completely pushing it into his left hand. He then crushes the blade with his hand and pulls the blade out, revealing a large, scythe-like variation of the blade. Goku Black calls the blade the product of his anger, as he says that his level of anger would make him the strongest in the world.

Goku Black attacks Vegeta with the scythe, and the Saiyan prince easily dodges the attack, but is surprised to see a large rift created from the swing. Vegeta cannot recognize the void inside of the slice, and Goku Black asks if what he sees is a different universe or the far future or past. Future Zamasu is proud of the fact that fighting strong enemies brings them to greater heights, but as he turns around, he is suddenly knocked away by Goku. Future Zamasu laughs at the attack, saying that Goku's "mortal" mind is intellectually lacking enough to where he attacks Future Zamasu knowing he is immortal. Goku and Future Zamasu, along with Vegeta and Goku Black, continue their respective fights, causing a huge shockwave in the surrounding area which knocks Future Mai off the top of a building. Bulma and Future Trunks in Bulma's portable garage wonder what's going on. Future Trunks checks on Future Mai, who saved herself by hanging onto a loose pipe, and shows her that he successfully fixed the urn. Future Trunks asks Future Mai about the battle, and she looks into her binoculars, but she's shocked to see Future Zamasu flying towards her.

[[File:BlackClones2.png|thumb|right|Goku Black creates clones]]
Bulma is flustered to hear about Zamasu approaching them, saying that the time machine hasn't been completely repaired yet. Future Trunks hands Future Mai the urn and volunteers to hold off Future Zamasu, but Bulma suggests to use the Evil Containment Wave. Future Trunks wonders how if Goku is not with them, but Bulma says that Future Trunks is going to use it. Back at the battlefield, Goku and Vegeta are being held up by clones created from the rift Goku Black made. Goku Black asks them if the work of a god left them frozen and unable to move. Vegeta and Goku try to attack the clones, but they simply reform themselves. Goku and Vegeta grow frustrated as more clones are made, and they both fire a barrage of energy blasts at the clones, but they still reform themselves. Goku Black taunts Goku and Vegeta, asking them what they will do as Future Zamasu is pursuing the others. Goku says he is not fighting fair, and Goku Black says he will fight fair once the others are killed and Goku and Vegeta will grow stronger with their anger. Vegeta tells Goku to use Instant Transmission to go to Future Trunks, but Goku says he is trying but the foul energy from the rift is preventing Goku from finding Future Trunks' energy.

[[File:TrunksMafuba.png|thumb|left|Future Trunks uses the evil Containment Wave on Zamasu]]
Back at the garage, Future Trunks is learning the Evil Containment Wave doing various silly poses, but they aren't working. Bulma then remembers she recorded Piccolo using the technique on her cell phone. Future Trunks says that his method was completely different. Bulma thinks to herself then hands Future Mai her phone, saying she will buy some time for Future Trunks to learn the attack. Future Trunks says it's dangerous, but Bulma tells him to trust in his mother. Future Zamasu lands in front of Bulma, and Bulma attempts to flirt with him. When this fails, Future Zamasu glares at Bulma. Future Trunks and Future Mai appear to see Bulma held by her collar, and Future Trunks is reminded of his own mother held the same way before her death. Bulma is apparently unconscious, and Future Zamasu throws her aside. Future Trunks grows angry and transforms into his Super Saiyan Anger form. Future Zamasu wonders if he is buying time but is surprised to see Future Trunks using the Evil Containment Wave on him. Future Trunks says that this is the strength of mortals as Future Zamasu is being thrown around in a green spiral. Future Trunks and Future Mai both yell out that he should not underestimate them. Future Trunks tells Future Mai to prepare herself as she opens the urn. Future Zamasu is successfully thrown into the urn and Future Mai closes it. Bulma congratulates them, and they are both surprised to see her okay, and she reminds them that they have to trust her. Bulma tells Future Mai to complete the seal with the paper amulet, but she quickly realizes that she forgot it in the past. Master Roshi is seen calling Capsule Corporation about Goku forgetting the paper amulet, and while Trunks tells Piccolo, Piccolo calls Goku an idiot. Bulma, Future Trunks and Future Mai desperately try to keep the urn closed, but their efforts are in vain as Future Zamasu pops back out, panting heavily.

Goku Black notes Future Zamasu's energy is disappearing and reappearing, also noting it is getting weaker, and uses Instant Transmission. With him leaving, the rift disappears, and so do the vast number of clones created by it. Vegeta quickly tells Goku to use Instant Transmission himself. Everyone reunites, and Vegeta tells Bulma to leave this to them. Future Zamasu tells Goku Black that they cannot be careless, or they will fail, as the mortals aren't as "mere" as they thought. They both agree that the time is ripe, and Future Zamasu puts his earring on his other ear. Goku, Vegeta, Gowasu and Supreme Kai immediately recognize what they are doing: the Potara fusion. The two fuse to become Fused Zamasu.

[[File:Fusion Zamasu Full Body.jpg|thumb|right|Fused Zamasu is born]]
Goku, Vegeta and Future Trunks are in awe over the immense power of Fused Zamasu. Supreme Kai and Gowasu, who are on the sidelines watching, realized they used the Potara to fuse. Fused Zamasu's pure energy creates a blinding explosion, forming into a halo behind him. Calling this power true justice, Fused Zamasu creates lightning bolts of energy to assault the Saiyans' surroundings. Vegeta orders Future Trunks to protect Bulma and Future Mai. As they prepare to go into the garage, Fused Zamasu tries to destroy it, but his attack is blocked by Goku and Vegeta's own energy waves. Future Trunks flies away with Bulma and Future Mai. Fused Zamasu creates sharp, exploding energy blades which explode around Goku and Vegeta, causing huge shockwaves around the surrounding area which caused parts of the Earth's Resistance base to collapse. As some civilians reach the surface, one of them is killed by Future Zamasu's energy attacks flying all over the place, which cause the others to freeze in place. Some civilians, including Future Yajirobe volunteer to check if it is safe, and Future Yajirobe is chosen to do the job. He tells the civilians the coast is clear. The group notice Fused Zamasu attacking the entire area, and some soldiers lose their fighting spirit upon seeing how powerful he is. Future Yajirobe secretly wishes that Goku can do something.

Goku and Vegeta are being pushed back by Fused Zamasu's power. Gowasu notes that by fusing, not only did both Zamasus grew stronger, but they also obtained even greater power that expanded to no end. Goku says that all they have to do is grow stronger themselves. Vegeta says that even if he doesn't know what they'll do, they cannot forgive Zamasu. At a safe location, Bulma takes her garage out of its capsule form and resumes her repairs of the time machine. While Future Mai offers to help, Future Trunks decides to go back and help Goku and Vegeta. Future Mai hands him the remaining Senzu Beans and wishes him luck. Vegeta attacks Fused Zamasu with Goku following him, and tries to hit him with some energy blasts, however Fused Zamasu takes no damage from the attack. Fused Zamasu creates a silhouette of his energy and fires a lightning bolt at Vegeta, causing him to crash to the ground. Goku is then hit with the same attack. With the two Saiyans defeated and knocked out, Fused Zamasu proceeds to destroy the world around him, causing numerous amounts of natural disasters stretching around the entire planet.

[[File:Fused Zamasu blocks SSJ Rage Future Trunks' sword.jpg|thumb|left|Future Trunks strikes Fused Zamasu]]
The civilians try to run, along with Haru & Maki, but Maki trips and falls. Before a burning pole falls on her, she is saved by Future Trunks. Future Trunks tells Future Yajirobe to take everyone to where Bulma's garage is, which is nearby. Goku and Vegeta wake up and are determined to win this battle as they both assume their Super Saiyan Blue forms again. Goku and Vegeta charge again, and Fused Zamasu attacks with his Lightning of Absolution. The two Saiyans block the attack and keep charging, destroying Fused Zamasu's energy silhouette. They both try to attack Fused Zamasu from both sides, but Fused Zamasu easily blocks their punches. Fused Zamasu breaks both of their arms, and knocks them aside, once again using his Blades of Judgment attack. Future Trunks returns and sees Goku and Vegeta both beaten. Angry, he transforms into Super Saiyan Anger and charges at Fused Zamasu, who uses his Blades of Judgment. Future Trunks counters the attack with his own sword, and tries to attack Fused Zamasu with it, but his attack is blocked, and he is sent plummeting to the ground. Fused Zamasu tries to destroy Future Trunks with a giant energy attack, but Future Trunks, not wanting to give up, retaliates with a Galick Gun, putting everyone's wishes into the attack. While running, Maki sees Future Trunks' discarded sword and goes towards it. While Future Trunks is being overpowered, he still does not wish to give up, but Vegeta gets up and fires his own Galick Gun to help his son.

[[File:Father-Son Galick Gun.png|thumb|right|Father-Son Galick Gun]]
Future Trunks' and Vegeta's Galick Guns eventually overpower Fused Zamasu's attack, causing a huge explosion. Future Trunks and Vegeta soon realize that their attack only made Fused Zamasu angry. When Fused Zamasu fires another Lightning of Absolution, Vegeta takes the attack full-force as it was meant for Future Trunks. When Vegeta is knocked out, Fused Zamasu prepares another attack, but Goku appears and collides with that attack with his God Kamehameha. As Fused Zamasu powers his attack, Goku does the same, pushing the attack back.

[[File:Screenshot 15.png|thumb|left|Goku uses the Kaioken technique against Fused Zamasu]]
Goku is in an intense Energy Clash, clashing with Fused Zamasu's Holy Wrath with his own God Kamehameha. When Goku is being overpowered, he uses his full power to push the attack back at Fused Zamasu. The refugees and soldiers of Earth's Resistance are cooped up in Bulma's garage, and Future Mai notices Maki holding Future Trunks' discarded sword. Goku is successful at pushing Fused Zamasu's attack back, but as a result he cannot use either one of his arms due to the strain. Goku then notices Fused Zamasu, gaining a purple devil-like appearance on the right side of his face. Regardless, Goku attacks Fused Zamasu with a barrage of kicks, and Fused Zamasu catches Goku's left foot and crushes it, but Goku uses his Kaio-ken to kick Fused Zamasu to the ground with his free leg. Goku immediately powers down and falls to the ground grievously injured. Goku groups up with Vegeta, Future Trunks, Supreme Kai and Gowasu, and they realize Goku's actions only made Fused Zamasu grow angrier and more hate filled. Fused Zamasu angrily powers up, and the entire right half of his body begins to mutate in a similar fashion as his face. Gowasu points out Fused Zamasu's potential weakness: While Future Zamasu's body is immortal, Goku Black's body is not, and there is no synergy between Fused Zamasu's soul and body. This can cause his mortal and immortal halves to conflict, creating openings, but they will need large amounts of power to even deal any real damage. Goku suggests using Potara so he and Vegeta can fuse, and Vegeta is completely against the idea, but soon realizes they have no other options. Vegeta reluctantly accepts the Potara earring and he and Goku eat a Senzu Bean. Goku asks Gowasu how come he and Vegeta split before when he was told the effects of Potara are permanent, and Gowasu explains that those who fuse that are not Supreme Kai will only stay fused for one hour. Vegeta and Goku, with one hour left to finish things, put on the earrings, and they fuse, and Vegito emerges.

Immediately after fusing, Vegito transforms into a Super Saiyan Blue, dubbing himself "'''Vegito Blue'''". Fused Zamasu fires a Holy Wrath at Vegito, who easily dissipates it, much to the corrupt God's shock. Vegito punches Fused Zamasu as he begins to once again lecture about gods and mortals, and Vegito challenges Fused Zamasu to squash him. The two then proceed to fight an intense battle, creating havoc and destruction in the surrounding area. The two fight to a stalemate, but Vegito is caught by a surprise punch and sent crashing to the ground. As Fused Zamasu prepares to finish him off with his God Split Cut, Vegito stabs him with his Spirit Sword. Vegito points out to Fused Zamasu that he is no longer immortal as he is permanently fused with a mortal, a mortal named "Son Goku". Fused Zamasu crushes Vegito's Spirit Sword and begins to power up even further, bulking up and growing larger in size and in hate. Gowasu explains that Fused Zamasu's mutation is caused by Zamasu's true feelings manifesting into power, and realizes that this is what Zamasu wished for the entire time. Bulma and Future Mai arrive, as Bulma has completely repaired the time machine, and Future Mai hands Future Trunks his (broken) sword. Future Trunks, thinking of Haru & Maki, powers up and he uses his sword's hilt as a base for his new sword created by his ki. Future Trunks then flies off towards the battle.

[[File:Vegito vs zamasu.png|thumb|right|Vegito Blue overpowers Fused Zamasu]]
As Vegito continues to pummel around Fused Zamasu, he tries to finish him off with an empowered Final Kamehameha. Fused Zamasu emerges from the attack, and Vegito teleports directly to him to hit him with a god aura-cloaked punch, but as he does so, he immediately defuses back to Goku and Vegeta. Supreme Kai notes that it hasn't been an hour yet, and Gowasu says they used up all of the power they needed to sustain the fusion. Fused Zamasu takes the opportunity to knock Goku and Vegeta down together with the same punch from his powered-up mutated arm, sending the two Saiyans crashing to the ground beaten. As Fused Zamasu prepares to finish them off, his attack is countered by Super Saiyan Anger with his sword of ki. After a short struggle, Future Trunks slashes Fused Zamasu twice across the chest, but Fused Zamasu recovers from the attack and drives Future Trunks into a corner, asking him where he plans to go for help next while mocking about his mortal weakness.

[[File:Future Trunks kills Grotesque Zamasu.jpg|thumb|left|Fused Zamasu meets his end by Future Trunks]]
Future Trunks states that he doesn't regret his weakness and begins to push Fused Zamasu back. As he declares that mortals work together and survive, his will to survive creates a giant, bright light around the fight scene. Haru & Maki, the soldiers of Earth's Resistance, Future Yajirobe, the refugees, Future Scratch, Future Android 8, Future Turtle, Bulma, and Future Mai all begin to be enveloped by the same light. A huge energy sphere appears in the sky, similar to the Spirit Bomb, and Future Trunks realizes it's the light from the energy of everyone on Earth. Future Trunks' sword of ki begins to glow from the light, and Goku and Vegeta give their remaining energy to Future Trunks, powering him up even further. Fused Zamasu attacks Future Trunks, but Future Trunks evades and takes to the air, where he absorbs the energy sphere and empowers his sword into a stronger form, resembling a large cleaver. Future Trunks then fights Fused Zamasu and stabs him with the sword before cleaving him in two.

With the death of the corrupt God, the alternate timeline is now at peace once again. Bulma and Future Mai arrive in the repaired Time Machine, and Future Mai hugs Future Trunks. Bulma tells him good job, wishing her future counterpart were alive to witness this. Supreme Kai and Gowasu also appear, and Goku and Vegeta hand Supreme Kai back his Potara earrings, but the group is interrupted by a giant cloud of smoke shrouding the sky. Gowasu and the others are surprised to see the sky of the entire world appear as silhouettes of Zamasu. Goku and Vegeta attempt to become Super Saiyan Blue, but due to their intense fight as Vegito, their energy is drained, and they cannot maintain the form. Future Trunks becomes Super Saiyan Anger and flies into the sky with Goku and Vegeta following him. Goku charges a Kamehameha, Vegeta charges a Final Flash, and Future Trunks charges a Galick Gun, and the three Saiyans combine their attacks and fire them at the sky, but their attacks are easily nullified. Gowasu speculates that Zamasu is attempting to become the universe itself, having cast off his physical form of a God in order to become order and justice. Zamasu's foul energy begins shrouding the entire world, with his many faces in the sky firing off mouth beams causing destruction to the entire area. Goku, Vegeta and Future Trunks are overwhelmed by the amount of energy Zamasu is spewing and are sent crashing to the ground.

[[Infinite Zamasu|Zamasu's influence]] begins to reflect onto the present timeline, shocking Trunks and everyone else there. On Beerus' planet, Beerus and Whis begin to sense Zamasu's negative energy from their location, and they wonder what is happening in the future world. In the future world, Future Trunks and the group are isolated in a random space influenced by Zamasu's energy. Future Trunks realizes he cannot sense the ki of the civilians worldwide. Future Mai, angry at the idea that everyone has died, begins firing her gun at the Zamasu-shrouded sky. Future Mai then falls to the ground crying as Future Trunks tries to console her. Goku wishes he had one more Senzu Bean and thinks he found one in his pocket, but it turns out to be the button given to him by Zeno. Goku asks Supreme Kai if the future's Zeno is still alive, and Supreme Kai deduces that he should be as he cannot be defeated by any means. Goku presses the button and Future Zeno instantly appears in front of them.

[[File:Infinite Zamasu erased by Future Zeno.png|thumb|right|Future Zeno erases Infinite Zamasu]] 
Goku happily hugs Future Zeno while Shin and Gowasu bow in respect for him. Future Trunks asks who this is, and is surprised to hear from Bulma about Zeno's status as the most eminent God in the multiverse. Future Zeno asks who Goku is, realizing he called him, and he asks where he is, noticing the Zamasu-influenced area around him. Goku directs Future Zeno to the perpetrator, Zamasu, whose face is appearing in the sky. Goku asks if he plans to erase Zamasu, and Future Zeno confirms, also saying he will erase the entire world with him. As Future Zeno prepares to do so, Goku quickly tells everyone to leave before Future Zeno erases them. Supreme Kai and Gowasu teleport out of the alternate timeline, and Bulma, Future Mai and Future Trunks climb onto and start up the time machine with Goku and Vegeta desperately hanging onto its legs. After the time machine disappeared, Future Zeno erased the entire world, erasing the screaming Zamasu for good. The group in the present timeline notice Zamasu being destroyed, and the time machine successfully returns after Future Zeno erases the future universe. Trunks and Goten happily greet their fathers, Chi-Chi greets her husband, and Trunks greets his mother. Mai greets Future Trunks and meets Future Mai. Trunks is infatuated with Future Mai. Future Mai and Future Trunks are distraught over their world being erased by Future Zeno. Beerus and Whis arrive, along with Supreme Kai and Gowasu, who apologizes to Beerus for the trouble. Beerus responds by telling him to pick his apprentices more wisely.

Goku and Future Trunks return to the future, noticing it is just an empty, blank void, but they notice Future Zeno hovering. Goku picks him up and they return to the present, and a frazzled Beerus along with the other Gods bow for him. Goku asks Supreme Kai to take them to Zeno's Palace, and Zeno happily greets Goku and meets his future counterpart. Goku introduces the two to each other, fulfilling his promise of bringing Zeno a friend. The two Zenos happily greet each other. The Grand Priest asks Whis if this was his idea, but he says this was Goku's idea. Whis tells the Grand Priest to visit Universe 7 sometime, revealing him to be Whis' father.

At Capsule Corporation, the group is eating dinner and Whis reveals to Future Trunks that there is a way they can return to a time where their world wasn't destroyed. Beerus tells him not to give them any funny ideas, not wanting to create more Time Rings. Whis reminds Beerus that he already created a Time Ring himself when he destroyed Zamasu. Whis plans to return to a time before the future Beerus died due to Future Supreme Kai's death, telling him to destroy Future Zamasu. Goku wonders what Future Beerus can do to an immortal Zamasu, and Whis answers by saying he has a way to seal Zamasu that's more effective than the Evil Containment Wave. When Goku and the others wonder why he didn't mention this before, Beerus tells them to stop relying on the Gods so much. Whis says there will be a problem: as they are returning to a certain point in the past with an already alive Future Trunks and Future Mai, they would have to live with a second Future Trunks and Future Mai that already exists in that point in time. Future Mai thinks for a little bit and accepts it, wanting to live together with everyone she fought with. Whis and Beerus then leave. In Universe 10, Gowasu locks up the Time Rings seeing the new Time Ring in shame, blaming himself for the events that transpired.

[[File:Future Trunks farewell.png|thumb|left|Future Trunks says goodbye]]
Future Trunks and Future Mai prepare to leave and they say their goodbyes, with Future Mai given new clothes and capsules full of food and supplies from Bulma. Goku compliments Future Trunks for how much he's grown, saying he should be strong enough to handle any threat. Vegeta suddenly attacks Future Trunks, who easily blocks the attack, and the two smile at each other as Vegeta accepts how strong his son has gotten since his initial return to the past. As Future Trunks and Future Mai prepare to leave, Gohan and Piccolo arrive, and Gohan raises his fist at Future Trunks. Future Trunks, thinking of his teacher, begins to cry. Gohan yells at Future Trunks to take care of himself. Future Trunks accepts this and cries tears of joy and says one last goodbye to everyone as he and Future Mai return to the future.

===Post-Zamasu===
In the anime, several events occur following the wrapping up of the conflict with Zamasu.

====Aftermath====
Late at night at Capsule Corporation, Bulma enters her lab, and after making sure she's not being followed, she reveals the Time Machine owned by Future Trunks (apparently repaired after Goku Black destroyed it, as Future Trunks and Future Mai traveled with Cell's time machine). Despite knowing that time manipulation is a major crime, Bulma insists on working on it as a scientist, proving that she could accomplish the same feat as her future self. Bulma tries to test it and turns it on, but it says "error". Bulma is frazzled and wonders if the material she is using cannot be used as the correct material the time machine needs only exists in the future. Bulma insists on not giving up and goes through the notebook left behind by Future Bulma.

[[File:DBS681.png|180px|right]]
At King Kai's planet, Goku decides to finally wish King Kai, Bubbles and Gregory back to life. Goku recalls the last time they used the Dragon Balls was to ask Shenron about the Super Dragon Balls, prior to the universal tournament, and deduces that enough time has passed by now so they can be used again. King Kai happily embraces Goku and thanks him for his kind words. Goku promises not to disappoint them and to treat reviving them as a priority. Bulma looks on her computer for the missing material, and ends up finding it, but it only exists on the Earth's core. Goku then teleports to her, and Bulma is surprised and succeeds in hiding the Time Machine by quickly turning the lights off (Goku appeared in-between her and the time machine, so the time machine is behind Goku). Bulma berates Goku on not knocking, and Goku asks her for the Dragon Radar. Bulma lends it to him and Goku flies off. Bulma realizes she can ask Shenron to get her the material she needs for the time machine.

Master Roshi is relaxing at Kame House, and Chi-Chi and Android 18 are shopping with Marron. Android 18 thinks about Krillin, who always treats her and Marron, but he never told Android 18 what he would want. Android 18 wants to surprise him with a present. Bulma eats a snack and waits for Goku to find the Dragon Balls, and Beerus and Whis suddenly stand behind her. The two Gods tell Bulma they have arrived because they want delicious food. Bulma plans to feed them food so they can leave before Goku finds the Dragon Balls. Bulma takes them to a crab house, and they have fun with the lobster instead of eating it. Goku collects all the Dragon Balls and returns to Capsule Corp. Goku doesn't find Bulma there and proceeds to call Shenron. Bulma notices the sky turning dark and hurries back to Capsule Corp., leaving Beerus and Whis there to eat. Shenron says that due to granting only one wish before, Goku has two wishes he can make. Before Goku can revive King Kai, he is interrupted by Android 18, Oolong, and Master Roshi. Oolong wants a wish for himself, but Master Roshi recalls him wishing for ladies' underwear (in order to prevent Pilaf from wishing for world domination).

Android 18 asks Goku if she can have the second wish, but Master Roshi and Oolong want it. Pilaf, Mai and Shu are hiding, and Pilaf tries to wish for world domination, but he is interrupted by Trunks and Goten, who want their wish granted. Android 18 tells them about growing up working for what they earn as that is good for their education. Pilaf tries to get the wish again, but he is interrupted by Gohan with Pan. Gohan asks to use a wish to cure Pan, who is suffering from a fever and none of the hospital medicine is working due to her Saiyan blood. Everyone agrees, and Shenron grants the first wish of curing Pan. Pan is cured and she happily flies in the air. Thanking everyone, Gohan flies away with Pan, and Shenron asks for the last wish. Before Goku can wish for King Kai's revival, the others ask why King Kai can't just wait and they begin to argue for their wish.

Bulma arrives and wants the wish for herself. She talks Android 18 out of wishing by telling her that Krillin would rather have Android 18 and Marron home with him than a superficial present. She talks Master Roshi out of wishing by paying some girls 10 million Zeni to drive away with him. She talks Oolong out of wishing by paying Android 18 to flick Oolong away. She asks Goten and Trunks what their wish is, but they have no idea, and Bulma tells them to think about a wish first. In order to give Goku his wish, Bulma asks him to bring her the material she needs from the Earth's core, telling him to wear Capsule Corp's special suit. Shenron prepares to leave without granting any wish, but Bulma coerces him to stay because of Beerus (Shenron senses Beerus still at the crab shop). Beerus and Whis leave the crab shop and sense Goku's energy, meeting him at the Earth's core. Shenron is told to stay a little longer by Bulma, regardless of his body fading away.

[[File:DBS685.png|thumb|left|]]
Beerus, Whis and Goku return, and Bulma is exposed as Beerus recognizes the material as it is needed for a time machine. Whis reminds her of time traveling being a crime, and Beerus not only destroys the material, but also destroys her laboratory with the time machine. As Bulma cries, Goku prepares to wish King Kai back but before he can Shenron leaves due to staying for far too long. Goku apologizes and tells King Kai he'll do it next time, and King Kai yells at him for not resurrecting him and his friends.<ref>''[[Dragon Ball Super (anime)|Dragon Ball Super]]'' episode 68, "[[Come Forth, Shenron! Whose Wish Will Be Granted?]]"</ref>

Mr. Pig announces that Arale Norimaki has arrived in ''Dragon Ball Super''. An opening showing the settings of Dr. Slump plays as Arale and the Gatchans runs and arrives to Senbei Norimaki's house. She catches Mr. Norimaki as he is leaving to West City to attend a world invention conference. Arale says she wants to go with him, but Mr. Norimaki drives off, telling her to house-sit while he is gone.

[[File:Dragon Ball Super Episode 69 Security Guard Goku (Goku VS Arale).png|thumb|right|Goku wearing a suit with gel in his hair for his security job]]
The scene changes to the world invention conference in West City, where an award will be presented to the scientist with the best invention. Goku is working security at the event (Chi-Chi pushes him to work as Mr. Satan presented him the job), and he is shown yawning in front of the door wearing a suit and he has gel in his hair. Bulma is also a nominee, and she is sitting at a table along with Vegeta and Trunks. Vegeta ignores the interviewer who attempts to ask him a question. Bulma and Trunks try to get Vegeta to smile just for the day, but Vegeta exclaims he doesn't care about an award. Outside, Goku rips his suit, and his hair falls back into place, so he rips off the suit's sleeves and walks off. The award-presenting ceremony begins, and the winner of the best invention is announced to be Mr. Norimaki for his Reality Machine #2. Mr. Norimaki, eating loads of food at his table, is surprised to hear he won and showcases his invention on the stage. Using the Reality Machine, Mr. Norimaki conjures a girly magazine and Mr. Satan uses it to conjure an action figure of himself, impressed at the invention. Bulma and Trunks are also impressed at the invention. When Mr. Satan is about to hand Mr. Norimaki his medal, a voice yells out that he objects; the voice is turned out to be from Dr. Mashirito.

Dr. Mashirito is frustrated that even though he is Mr. Norimaki's rival, he was not invited to the ceremony. Mr. Norimaki points out that he died in the Dr. Slump comic, but Dr. Mashirito points out that he is a Ghost, and that he escaped from Hell upon hearing the news. Dr. Mashirito reveals he brought Arale and the Gatchans with them, having slipped a special chemical in their food while they were house-sitting, explaining the chemical named Playtine-X increases their desire to play by a hundred-fold. Dr. Mashirito tells Arale and the Gatchans to play with the attendees. Mr. Satan, wanting to put his name out there even more, offers to play with Arale, but she playfully but forcefully pushes Mr. Satan into the wall. Arale and the Gatchans then begin playing, causing havoc and destroying the whole building. Mr. Satan tells everyone to evacuate and asks Vegeta if he can deal with Arale. Vegeta gets up and confronts her, calling her an undisciplined brat, and Arale is excited upon hearing that Vegeta is strong. Arale charges towards Vegeta, who takes a fighting stance.

Outside, Goku is in his normal Dogi and is taking a nap but wakes up when Vegeta is knocked out of the building and crashes right next to him. Vegeta breaks the fourth wall by calling Arale a gag comic character with absurd strength. Goku and Arale spot each other, but they don't seem to recognize each other. Goku is reluctant on hitting Arale to knock her out. Vegeta powers up and lands a full-force hit on Arale, knocking her far away. When Vegeta smirks, Arale knocks him down from behind, having been sent around the globe. Vegeta breaks the fourth wall again by saying that common sense doesn't apply to Arale as she is a gag character. Vegeta points out a UFO, and when Arale turns around, Vegeta kicks her into a statue and her head falls off. The group is surprised to see Arale is still functional and casually puts her head back on. Arale points out that she is a robot, and casually punches the ground, splitting the Earth in half. Arale knocks Vegeta away with her Arale Kick. Arale catches up to Vegeta and uses a Headbutt on him, launching the Saiyan far away.

[[File:Vlcsnap-2016-12-08-15h53m22s819.png|thumb|left|Goku and Arale]]
Arale wants to play with Goku now, who recognizes her after watching that headbutt. Arale also recognizes Goku. Excited, Goku compliments Arale's strength and transforms into a Super Saiyan Blue. Arale, excited, fires her N'cha Cannon and Goku counters it with his God Kamehameha, causing an explosion. Arale prepares to fire another N'Cha Cannon, this time with its power x100, and Goku says he's not sure if he can counter it, but he attempts to, charging another God Kamehameha. Mr. Satan is worried that it's the end of the world if Goku can't stop her. Bulma calls Whis, who asks for Beerus to come and deal with Arale. Whis tells her that Beerus has just fallen asleep and that a God like him should not be used like a temp staff. Mr. Norimaki and Trunks are trying to stop Dr. Mashirito, but cannot touch him as he is a Ghost. Mr. Norimaki suggests that they use poo and conjures some with the Reality Machine #2. Goku and Arale are charging their attacks as Trunks hurls the poo in front of Arale, who begins poking at it with a stick. This is an attempt to buy time as they must come up with something before Arale loses interest in the poop.

Bulma comes up with another idea and picks up the video camera showing the conference live around the world. She points it at Reality Machine #2 and tells everyone to imagine the most delicious food they can think of. Everyone around the world watching does so, and when Reality Machine #2 gets everyone's images, he creates a small, brown orb which consists of the food everyone thought of. Beerus immediately wakes up upon sensing this food, and he and Whis crash onto the scene, with Whis commenting he never went that fast before. Beerus picks up the orb as Dr. Mashirito condescendingly talks to him, but he is destroyed with Whis claiming that Beerus can destroy anything, even if it is a ghost. Beerus eats the orb and is incredibly overjoyed by its taste. Arale calls Beerus a cat and asks him to play, but the insulted Beerus taps his foot and creates a shockwave that knocks everyone back. Beerus prepares to attack Arale with an energy beam, but before he does so, his stomach begins convulsing due to what he ate, and he and Whis instantly go back home.

Later, the chemical runs out and Arale and the Gatchans calm down. Mr. Norimaki prepares to leave with them, and he apologizes to the group for the trouble. Goku and Arale agree to fight again, and they say their goodbyes. Trunks asks Bulma if they are forgetting something, and the scene changes to Vegeta hanging off a branch on a cliff, claiming he will never fight a gag comic character again.<ref>''[[Dragon Ball Super (anime)|Dragon Ball Super]]'' episode 69, "[[Goku vs. Arale! An Off-the-Wall Battle Spells the End of the Earth?]]"</ref>

Champa calls Beerus and challenges him to a baseball game between Universe 6 and Universe 7 in order to "cultivate the friendship" between them, and after Beerus accept the challenge, Champa reveals to Vados that he tricked Beerus into accepting the game, only so that Champa could steal Earth's delicious food for himself and claims that he'll let someone else play in his place. Vados, however, tricks Champa into entering the game after she claims that Earth's food will be tastier after playing sports, something that Champa believes in and decides to be part of the game and asks Vados the rules of baseball before they arrive on Earth.

[[File:Dragon-Ball-Super-Yamcha.jpg|thumb|right|Yamcha playing Baseball]]
At the baseball arena, Beerus' team, composed of Goku, Piccolo, Krillin, Trunks, Gohan and Yamcha are preparing for the game, while Beerus acts as their coach. Meanwhile, Champa's team, composed of Champa himself, Cabba, Botamo, Magetta, Vegeta and Goten (replacing Hit and Frost), are also preparing for the game. Whis and Vados, the referees for the game, declare that all sorts of destruction are forbidden and tells each time to bow. Goku notices that Hit is not part of Champa's team, and Champa states that getting in touch with Hit was too difficult. Bulma, Videl, 18, Chi-Chi and Puar are spectating, and while 18 wonders if Yamcha was suitable as captain, both Puar and Bulma state that baseball was Yamcha's specialty and noticed that everyone else from Beerus' team didn't understand baseball at all. As Goku prepares to pitch, Champa tells him to throw it with all he's got, and Goku then transforms into Super Saiyan Blue. Beerus shouts from the bench to not let Champa hit, and when Bulma informs him that it's only a "friendship" match, Beerus claims that it was still a fight between them, and he would win it. Goku throws the ball, and causes it a huge crater on the field, but Champa failed it to hit nonetheless so Whis declares it a strike. Whis and Vados use their powers to repair the field. As Whis reminds Goku that destruction was forbidden in the game, he tells Goku that if he destroys the field again, he would be thrown out, and Beerus tells Goku to throw it lightly next time. However, Goku throws the ball too slow, and after a long period of time waiting, Champa finally hits the ball, but it goes out in space, and Gohan declares it a foul and Whis declares it strike two.

For the third time, Goku throws the ball, but Champa finally hits it and starts running around the field, but Trunks launched an energy blast onto the ball to prevent a homerun and has it fall right on Trunks' hand, and Whis declares Champa out as a result. Champa claims that Trunks cheated, but Vados notes that the rules don't say that the use of energy is forbidden. Yamcha wants to pitch next, while Botamo says he'll knock it to pieces. Yamcha uses his Wolf Fang Pitching Fist Ball to throw the ball, and when Botamo is about to hit the ball, Yamcha controls the ball to avoid the bat and successfully land a strike. Yamcha claims that it was the combination of his Wolf Fang Fist, and his Spirit Ball attacks, declaring his greatest technique. Yamcha successfully lands two more strikes and Whis declares it batter out. Cabba is next, but Yamcha again manages to land three strikes. As the others praise Yamcha, Vegeta is next and claims he figured baseball out.

As Vegeta prepares to pitch, Bulma cheers on both Vegeta and Yamcha, leaving Yamcha blushing and claims he won't lose to Vegeta at baseball. Vegeta throws the ball and hits Yamcha with it, and Vegeta believes he won, but Whis declares it hit by pitch, and Bulma asks Vegeta what he was doing, and Vegeta responds by saying that he wins by "beating" everyone, something that Goku also believes. Whis, however, informs Vegeta that if he hits Yamcha again, he'll be thrown out for reckless pitching, and both Vegeta and Goku realize that they're not supposed to hit the players, and Vegeta declares baseball as an annoying game, and Goku takes Yamcha's place. Vegeta goes Super Saiyan Blue, and so does Goku, stating he'll use his full power. As Vegeta pitches the ball at full power, Goku manages to hit the ball, but the pressure causes Goku to struggle in sending the ball flying away, and when Goku starts pushing the ball away, Vegeta launches a barrage of energy blasts towards Goku, pushing him back to prevent him from pushing the ball away. As Vegeta prepares his Final Flash, he gets distracted by Yamcha's running and Goku finally sends the ball away, but Botamo catches it and Yamcha starts running. When Cabba throws the ball back to Vegeta, Yamcha is approaching, with Champa behind him, but Vegeta catches the ball and elbows Yamcha, followed by Champa hitting Yamcha with his knee, sending him flying away. Vados declares Champa's obstruction as unfair and declares Yamcha safe. As Gohan prepares to head to the arena, Piccolo informs him that Magetta, the pitcher this time, can't fly, and tells Gohan to hit the ball into the air. Gohan successfully manages to do so, but Magetta launches Botamo in the air to catch the ball, and as Yamcha is running, Cabba shouts to someone pick him off, and Champa throws the ball at Yamcha, causing him to fall flat on his face. As Champa believes he won, Whis declares Yamcha safe, and Vados informs Champa that Yamcha was safe because Champa needed to be holding the ball to have Yamcha out.

[[File:Screenshot 52.png|thumb|left|Whis and Vados stop Beerus and Champa's fight]]
As Champa mocks Yamcha and calls their coach a wuss, Beerus takes insult and confronts Champa. As the two brothers began arguing more and more, they soon begin clashing and causing destruction around the arena, and everyone hides inside Whis and Vados' shields, but Goku states that if two Gods of Destruction fight one another, the entire universe would be destroyed. As their battle heats up, they are stopped by Whis and Vados, who again inform them that destruction was forbidden and call the game off. As Champa and Beerus believe they ended up on a tie, Vados informs him that it was Universe 7's walk-off victory, and as they look at the crater, they see Yamcha with his hand at the base, which gained Universe 7 the win. As everyone praises Yamcha, Krillin notice that Yamcha's laying pose was familiar, and Piccolo claims it's a [[Vegeta Saga|"bitter memory"]], and so does Gohan. Yamcha then passes out after saying that he may have his own different walk-out. During their trip back to Universe 6, Champa is seen practising along with the rest of the Universe 6 members, and claims he won't lose next time, and Vados notices that Champa forgot the real reason he challenged Beerus in the first place.<ref>''[[Dragon Ball Super (anime)|Dragon Ball Super]]'' episode 70, "[[A Challenge From Champa! This Time, a Baseball Game!]]"</ref>

====The Assassin's Return====
Gohan, Piccolo, and Goten discover the lifeless body of Goku laying on the ground and begin to mourn his death, then the title page appears.

At Goku's house, Goku is quietly meditating by himself, sensing everything around him. He is interrupted by Chi-Chi telling him that dinner is ready. Chi-Chi and Goten watch Goku's strange behavior, as he picks up and eats one grain of rice after another instead of eating how he usually does. He thinks to himself that he cannot sense "his" energy, and that "he" might be masking it. He tells Chi-Chi that he senses three cockroaches behind the fridge. He then immediately senses someone outside put up their fist and rushes to confront that person, only to realize that it was the mailman about to knock on the door. The mailman nervously hands Goku his mail as the Saiyan apologetically says hello.

On Beerus' planet, Vegeta is training with Whis and Beerus notes that Goku is not there, wondering why he has skipped on training recently. He wonders if Goku is training on his own on Earth, as he expects Goku to be able to impress Zeno with his strength at the multi-universal tournament in order to keep Zeno satisfied, calling Goku the lead fighter of Universe 7, much to Vegeta's chagrin. Beerus orders Whis to personally train Goku. Vegeta asks Whis if Goku is undergoing some kind of special training, asking to be a part of that training, as well. As Whis tells him Vegeta he only completed a partial portion of his training regimen, Vegeta becomes a Super Saiyan Blue and prepares to finish the rest.

In a city, Goku is grocery shopping for Chi-Chi, still sensing everything around him. Gohan and Goten are following Goku, worried about their father. Not wanting to be discovered, Gohan proposes they go incognito, and he becomes the Great Saiyaman. Gohan offers Goten the same costume, but Goten, calling the costume lame, settles on just sunglasses. Gohan is disappointed as in the past Goten thought the costume was cool. Keeping his eyes closed, Goku is walking, having walked in front of a movie playing in the theater, an aquarium, and in a women's lingerie store. Goku finally opens his eyes to see a piece of a bra and panties on a mannequin. Goku then walks outside, and Gohan and Goten apologize to the skeptical storekeepers. Goku begins to frantically look around for whatever he's looking for, and casually walks into the open road as Bulma crashes into him, destroying her car against Goku. Bulma, frustrated, tries to hit Goku but Goku instinctively dodges it. Gohan and Goten are confused as Goku usually never dodges Bulma's punches. Gohan plans to ask Goku what his deal is over dinner.

Later that night, the Son Family and Piccolo are having dinner and Gohan and Videl's house. Goku begins to eat like he usually does again, and when he's alone, Gohan and Goten approach him and ask him what's wrong. Goku tells them he knew they were following him in the city. Goku promises them to keep this a secret from Chi-Chi and tells them that he senses that someone is after his life.

[[File:KWBvKxa.jpg|thumb|left|Hit makes his return]]
Meanwhile, in a populated city in Universe 6, Hit is assigned the job to assassinate someone wealthy. He walks to the huge building where the individual serves as the boss and uses Time-Skip to go through the gate while not alerting the guards. Hit casually uses Time-Skip to slip pass everyone in the building completely unnoticed. As he goes up the elevator, the guards in the room where the boss is realized there is no guests scheduled at this time and prepare to confront whoever comes up the elevator. Hit, sensing them, uses Time-Skip to freeze time for everyone in the room besides him and his target sitting in the back. Hit casually dodges the boss' secret laser beam attack, and as he pleads for his life, Hit instantly kills him with one blow to his heart. Ending the Time-Skip, Hit disappears as the confused guards check on their boss, dead on the floor. Hit takes the chain the boss was wearing and hangs it up, revealing his next target to be Goku.

Back on Earth, Piccolo notices Gohan's concern for Goku, asking what's wrong and to not keep secrets from him. Gohan tells him about someone being after Goku's life. Piccolo appears to not be worried as he says there aren't many people who can suddenly take Goku's life but is surprised to hear Gohan saying Hit. Goku senses Hit approaching and quietly flies away, not wanting anyone to get in the way of his fight. Piccolo, Gohan and Goten soon notice that Goku is gone. Vegeta and Whis are still training, and Vegeta says he has three more times. Whis corrects him by saying he has thirteen more times.

[[File:Hit standing over Goku's lifeless body.png|thumb|right|Hit "murders" Goku]]
In a secluded location, Goku senses Hit's energy, but it's faint. Knowing he's there, Goku becomes a Super Saiyan Blue. Piccolo, Gohan and Goten can no longer sense Goku's energy and realize he transformed and is using his godly ki. They then fly to where they last sensed Goku's energy. Goku tells Hit to show himself, and he stands behind Goku, telling him he was hired to kill him. Although, Hit says that if Goku were to disappear, he will spare him and say that he killed him, but Goku declines the offer. Hit tells Goku to turn around, as his method of assassination works with one blow to the front. Goku does so and prepares to fight, reminding Hit that his Time-Skip won't work on him, but Hit says he knows not to use it. Goku attacks Hit, but none of his attacks are working as they are simply going through Hit. Goku then backs up and charges a Ki Blast, while Hit holds his fist up. Goku notes that he won't be able to land a punch at that distance, but Hit uses the same attack he used on his last assassination: a single, invisible strike to Goku's heart. Goku's Ki Blast is shot into space as he falls over and dies. Hit says he will come back to see Goku's grave and disappears.

The same scene from the beginning of the episode now plays, with Gohan, Goten and Piccolo discovering Goku's dead body and mourning his death.<ref>''[[Dragon Ball Super (anime)|Dragon Ball Super]]'' episode 71, "[[Goku Dies! An Assassination That Must Be Executed!]]"</ref>

Gohan, Goten, and Piccolo are unsuccessfully trying to revive Goku. Gohan suddenly senses an energy blast falling from the sky, and Piccolo tells them to move out of the way as the blast hits Goku, bringing him back to life. Piccolo claims that Goku probably launched that attack before collapsing in order to revive himself, and Goku states he actually saw King Yemma for a brief moment. As Goten claims he'll get revenge on Hit for killing him, Goku refuses, saying that their fight was between them, and wouldn't allow him to interfere. Goku then calls out for Hit, knowing he was still around, and claims he was still alive. Hit masks his energy, but his voice can be heard throughout the land, and tells Goku he indeed fulfilled his mission because Goku was killed, even if momentarily. Goku, however, states it didn't count because of the "three second rule". Goku then goes Super Saiyan Blue and flies away, while telling Hit to follow him.

[[File:Hit observes Goku.png|thumb|left|Hit observes from afar]]
Goku arrives in a forest and tells Hit to face him so they could fight again. Hit then uses his Invisible Killing Strike, which passes through the trees, but Goku narrowly avoids the attack, while saying that Hit failed in his promise to kill him with a single strike. Goku states he was surprised that Hit's attacks were able to pass through the trees, but states that it's helping him figure out his ability; Hit is launching invisible energy blasts. Hit states that knowing about it wouldn't stop them, and Goku tells Hit to go somewhere with more space for them to fight.

As they head to an abyss near the ocean, Goku charges up, and Hit states that letting off his energy in the darkness was like telling him exactly where he was. Hit states he'd never missed a target before, and as Goku claims he thought the same, Hit claims he'd used any methods to get his targets, before launching another invisible energy blast, but Goku avoids the attack, and Hit claims that Goku indeed figured the technique out in his third try. As Goku charges at Hit, he can't hit him, Hit avoiding the attacks, even when extremely close to Goku. Goku wonders if it was the Afterimage Technique, but quickly learns it wasn't the case. Hit suddenly disappears and re-appears next to Goku and sends him to the ground with his Sledgehammer attack, burying Goku underneath several rocks, but Goku quickly breaks out of it. Goku claims that Hit was stronger since the tournament, but states that Hit could go even further. Goku suddenly begins shaking and wonders why. Hit claims Goku's shaking was from fear rather than excitement, and Goku states that he was right.

Meanwhile, at Beerus' Planet, Vegeta is training with Whis, and Vegeta quickly gets exhausted. Whis claims there was three more times to go, and Vegeta claims he'll trade the remaining three times to go for an extra-fine steak. Whis, however, claims he'd already had steak several times and would need something tasty he'd never eaten before. Vegeta quickly claims he'll put the Granny's Secret Sauce on it, and Whis accepts.

Back on Earth, Goku states that he couldn't land a single strike on Hit but would give it a shot nonetheless and charges at him, but passes right through him several times, while Hit doesn't move at all. Hit suddenly moves in an incredibly speed and hits Goku with a knee to the gut. Goku claims there was something off, feeling as if there was two of Hit, and Hit kicks Goku into the rocks. Champa, with Vados at this side, who are watching the battle, is surprised that Goku was still alive, while claiming that Hit was at his best. Vados states that Goku was indeed having trouble, and Champa wonders why Goku can't land a strike on Hit. Vados asks Champa if he knew the reason for Hit's Time-Skip being called by that name, and Champa claims it was because he stopped time. Vados, however, states that Hit wasn't stopping time, but actually "skipping" time, and Champa wonders what "skipping time" meant. Vados explains that Hit could store the time he'd skipped, and with that stored time, Hit could create a separate space, a parallel world, and could move freely to and from there, and states that was the reason he could be seen, but not touched. Champa comically states it was so amazing that he couldn't even understand.

[[File:Vados and Champa.png|thumb|right|Vados explaining to Champa about Hit's ability]]
As Goku is recuperating his energy, he claims that a little more time and he would get ahold of something, and Hit suddenly appears in front of him and sarcastically asks Goku to get ahold of him. Goku tries to land several kicks and punches, but it passes right through Hit once again. Hit uses his Time-Storage to attack Goku and punches him, but Goku manages to scratch him before being sent flying back by the punch and Hit states he wasn't surprised that Goku could actually scratch him. Vados claims that their fight was like watching a re-creation of the tournament, and Champa claims that Goku would be a threat in the next tournament and claims that Vados was right in hiring Hit to assassinate Goku. Vados, however, claims she only hired Hit by proxy and the real client was someone else. As Goku lands punches and kicks that passes through Hit, Goku claims that his body was actually somewhere else when he's being attacked, something that Hit confirms, and Goku states that Hit couldn't attack him while using the Time-Storage and only returned to the real world when Hit decided to attack, and states he aimed at that very moment. Hit states it wasn't that he couldn't attack, before sending another invisible blast towards Goku. Vados claims that Hit wasn't holding back when showing his movements and states that Hit was actually enjoying the fight.

As Champa claims that an assassin shouldn't be enjoying fighting their targets, Vados claims that at that very moment, Hit wasn't an assassin, but merely a Martial Artist, and Hit states that he still could attack despite his body being somewhere else. Goku compliments Hit and says that he's always one step ahead of him, but claims he'd never let anyone beat him and get away with it, but Beerus, who was watching from afar with Whis and Vegeta, claims that Goku kept getting beat by him. Goku asks them what they were doing there, and Beerus informs him they were there to observe the fight, and Whis states they weren't the only ones and points towards Champa and Vados. Beerus tells Goku to hurry and finish the fight and begins powering up and Hit teleports himself to his separate space, but Goku's energy begins cracking Hit's space, much to his, Champa and Vados' shock. As Hit's space cracks, Goku launches a Kamehameha, which completely destroys Hit's space and the two fall to the ground exhausted.

[[File:Goku hired Hit.png|thumb|left|Goku admits that he hired Hit]]
As the sun rises, Goku and Hit smile at their tremendous fight, and Vegeta claims that Goku seemed to enjoy fighting Hit more than he enjoyed fighting him, but Goku claims that it wasn't the case as Hit was after his life. Vegeta asks Hit who hired him, but Hit refuses to answer, saying that he wouldn't disclose his client. Beerus asks Vegeta if he didn't secretly hired Hit, but Vegeta tells Beerus to not be stupid, and Beerus threatens by calling him stupid and Vegeta quickly apologises. Whis asks Vegeta if he didn't any clue on who hired Hit and after some quick thinking, Vegeta looks at Goku and deduces that Goku hired Hit himself so he could fight him at his best, something that Goku confirmed. Hit asks if it was true, and Goku apologises for hiding it, saying that if Hit knew that Goku had hired him, he wouldn't fight him at full power. Hit smiles and claims that Goku was so deep that he couldn't understand him, and Goku asks in a friendly way if he was complementing him. Beerus asks Whis if he had anything to do with it, and Whis claims that Goku begged him to help him hire Hit, so Whis contacted Vados and had her contact Hit and hire him to go after Goku. Beerus tells Whis to not do such reckless things again, but Whis claims that Beerus wanted Goku trained, but Beerus claimed he wanted Whis to train Goku himself and never expected him to call Hit.

As Piccolo, Goten and Gohan arrive with Chi-Chi with them, Hit asks Goku if his mission had a due date, and Goku says there isn't. Hit claims that he couldn't kill him with so many witnesses around and smiled as he told Goku he would take his time killing him and told him to watch his back before flying away. Champa and Vados depart afterwards as Goku's friends arrive. Chi-Chi asks Goku if he was all right and says that Piccolo told her everything and asks Goku who hired Hit to kill him. Goku fakes not knowing who hired Hit, and Chi-Chi assumes it was Frost and Goku quietly tells Vegeta to not tell anyone that Goku hired him. Beerus and Whis remind Vegeta about their agreement about the steak with Granny's Secret Sauce, but Vegeta panicks after remembering he made everything up, and Goku claims he wants to fight Hit again soon.<ref>''[[Dragon Ball Super (anime)|Dragon Ball Super]]'' episode 72, "[[Will He Strike Back? The Unseen Killing Technique!]]"</ref>

====Saiyaman's Big Movie====
[[File:Vlcsnap-2017-01-25-18h22m38s253.png|thumb|right|Gohan confronts Watagash]]
Mr. Satan reveals to Videl and Gohan that he is starring in a new superhero film: "Great Saiyaman vs. Mister Satan"! As Videl, Gohan, and Pan check out the film set, the lead in the film –- a famous but self-absorbed actor named Barry Kahn – becomes enamored with Videl and tries to woo her. Videl rejects Barry in front of the entire film crew, which angers him. Seeking revenge on Videl for his humiliation, Barry convinces Gohan to take over as the main stuntman for the film in order to embarrass and potentially maim him. As Gohan is the real Great Saiyaman, he uses his powers to easily take on the role. Gohan later dons the suit again for a fight against a pair of bank robbers. When the film crew believes Gohan used the suit and stopped the bank robbery, Bulma bails him out. However, Gohan's identity is accidentally revealed to Cocoa, who is a starlet in the film. Cocoa blackmails Gohan into flying her around the city. Meanwhile, Jaco chases after a Watagashi that he lets escape from his spaceship while at a space ramen stand. Suspecting that the Great Saiyaman might be the host of Watagashi, Jaco attacks Gohan with a vaporizing cannon.<ref>''[[Dragon Ball Super (anime)|Dragon Ball Super]]'' episode 73, "[[Gohan's Plight! The Preposterous Great Saiyaman Film Adaptation?!]]"</ref> Gohan manages to dodge Jaco's cannon blast and learns of Watagashi's ability to possess its hosts. Cocoa brings Gohan back to her apartment to rehearse, but she hides the fact that she was forced by Barry to let photos be taken of the pair for the tabloids. She has a secret change of heart and does not let the photos get taken in her room. When the pair go to the roof the next morning, Barry gets the pictures of Gohan getting a kiss from Cocoa and revealing himself as Great Saiyaman. Barry immediately brings the photos to Videl in an attempt to expose Gohan as a cheater. As he tries to woo Videl again, she sees through Barry's act and refuses his advances. Watagashi finds and possesses Barry by turning him into a powerful monster in the process. The possessed Barry dispatches Gohan and kidnaps Pan. He seeks a final showdown with Gohan. Barry proves formidable. Gohan is nearly killed in the struggle. Videl and Pan express complete faith in Gohan's desire to protect them and call out for his aid. Gohan transforms into "Super Great Saiyaman" and knocks out Barry, which separates him from Watagashi in the process. The film becomes a hit and Cocoa blackmails Barry into keeping Gohan's secret with the knowledge that Barry was the monster that attacked the city. After capturing Watagashi again, Jaco goes back to the space ramen stand and the Watagashi escapes from him again.<ref>''[[Dragon Ball Super (anime)|Dragon Ball Super]]'' episode 74, "[[For My Beloved Ones! The Indomitable Great Saiyaman!]]"</ref>

====Krillin's Comeback====
[[File:Supergreatsaiyaman.png|thumb|left|Gohan about to fight Goku]]
In the field where Goku usually works, Chi-Chi talks to Gohan and Goten about Goku firing Ki Blasts to plow the field, telling him training and working is like killing two birds with one stone. Gohan asks why he was called, and Goten says that it is boring for Goku without anyone to fight, since Beerus and Whis are attending a Multiverse Supreme Kai-God of Destruction joint summit. Vegeta and Piccolo are also busy, so Gohan was called. Before Gohan asks if Goten could do it, Chi-Chi gets angry that she does not want Goten to train with Goku. Gohan exclaims he doesn't fight anymore but calls on one man for the job: Great Saiyaman. Goku asks what Gohan is doing, but Gohan remains in his Great Saiyaman character and prepares to fight a sparring match with Goku. Goku accepts and charges, and him and Gohan exchange powerful blows that creates shockwaves around the area. The two begin to fight more seriously, and they both transform into Super Saiyans. The two continue their fight, but Chi-Chi stops them from fighting even longer because they are destroying the field. Later at home, Goku is doing push-ups while Goten is sitting on him, and Goku wishes to spar some more. Goten suggests that he asks Krillin, but despite Chi-Chi saying that he's busy with his police officer duties, Goku leaves, and Chi-Chi prepares to call Android 18 to warn her.

Meanwhile, Krillin and a couple of police officers are chasing a pair of criminals. Krillin uses his speed to appear in front of their car and cause them to crash, but the two parties engage in a shoot-off. Krillin protects one officer from the criminal's shot, but his arm is grazed. Goku suddenly appears and greets Krillin, and the two criminals prepare to shoot Goku because they think he's also an officer. Goku suddenly moves in front of them and bends their guns, allowing the officers to arrest the criminals; they also thank Goku for his cooperation. Krillin asks if Goku showed up to help him, but Goku wants to train. The two return to Krillin's house, and Krillin bandages his arm while Goku plays with Marron. Krillin says that him sparring with Goku wouldn't be satisfying, plus he quit martial arts, and he just works as a cop. Goku just wants a training partner, plus he reminded Krillin that he fought when Frieza was revived. Android 18 shows up and picks up Marron, showing her disappointment in Krillin injured from a mere bullet, wondering why her husband is a spineless weakling while Marron exclaims, she wants a strong father. Krillin is inspired by their words and agrees to spar with Goku, wanting to become stronger himself. While the two spar outside, they reminisce about training under Master Roshi as kids. They both agree to continue their training at Kame House.

When they arrive, Krillin asks Master Roshi to retrain him, giving him a lady magazine as an incentive. Master Roshi asks where Goku's greeting is, and Goku asks if he can train him too. Master Roshi says he'd be a boring opponent for Goku, who has gained power of the Gods. Krillin asks if Master Roshi could train him against Goku, saying it would also benefit his job and his well-being to become stronger. Goku is forced to put on a heavy turtle suit that he can barely walk in. Krillin bans Goku from flying and transforming into a Super Saiyan, saying he needs Goku to be at a disadvantage otherwise he would be killed. The two begin to fight, and despite Krillin's aggressive assault, he notices that the heavy suit Goku is wearing is not affecting his movements at all. Goku attacks back, and before he can land a heavy punch, Master Roshi calls off the spar. Goku then thanks Krillin for training with him.

[[File:DBS-85-4588744.png|thumb|right|Goku and Krillin on a mission]]
Later that night while Goku is asleep, Krillin is outside training on his own. Master Roshi notices the doubt in Krillin, saying he has a confused will. The next morning, Master Roshi says their next training will be running an errand for him: picking up an herb called a Paradise Plant, that only grows in a deep forest on a remote island. It will be a race, and while Goku is excited, Master Roshi reveals the prize: his treasured photograph collection of girls. Goku and Krillin are uninterested in the prize, and Master Roshi reveals another prize: a training technique that can increase their strength. Goku and Krillin agree to pick up the herb, and they fly to the island. Goku and Krillin meet Fortuneteller Baba, who reveals Master Roshi asked her to observe their race with her crystal ball. Goku and Krillin prepare to race to find the Paradise Plant, and they enter an eerie forest.

Goku and Krillin notices something strange about the forest they're in, and a number of strange figures surround them: giant versions of Perfect Cell, Final Form Frieza, Vegeta, Nappa, the Ginyu Force, King Piccolo, and Super Buu. Krillin also notices Tambourine, his murderer and is trembled with fear.<ref>''[[Dragon Ball Super (anime)|Dragon Ball Super]]'' episode 75, "[[Goku and Krillin! Back to the Old Familiar Training Ground!]]"</ref>

Goku and Krillin are in the mysterious forest, surrounded by giant illusions of Frieza, Tambourine, Super Buu, Vegeta, Nappa, Cell, King Piccolo, and the Ginyu Force. Two more illusions also appear: Dabura and Raditz. Goku tries to calm the terrified Krillin down, assuring him they're nothing but illusions, as he casually throws a punch at the fake Vegeta. Goku is surprised to see the fake Vegeta catch his punch and knock him aside, as if he's completely solid. The two are aware the illusions are fake, as the real Vegeta wouldn't be there with them. Goku and Krillin prepare to fight the illusions. Krillin kicks aside the fake Nappa, and as the fake Tambourine prepares to attack him, Krillin has a flashback of Tambourine killing him. Krillin frantically dodges his attack and runs, but as the fake Frieza charges at him, he has a flashback of Frieza killing him. He is then confronted by the fake Super Buu and has a flashback of Super Buu killing him. As Krillin runs into the fake Dabura, he has a flashback of Dabura turning him into stone. Goku kicks Dabura aside and tells Krillin he has to fight, too. The two are then confronted by an illusion of Bulma.

At Kame House, Fortuneteller Baba arrives, and Master Roshi thanks her for her help. Baba charges him ten million Zeni for her help, and simply says that he owes her. Baba then broadcasts the events in the forest through her Crystal Ball, and Android 18 shows up with Marron. 18 sees Krillin trembling with fear, and the two explain to her that he and Goku are in the Forest of Terror, where memories deep in the heart take form. Goku takes Krillin and tries to fly away from the illusions, suggesting that he and Krillin both use the Kamehameha to take out the illusions, which they successfully do as the illusions all disappear from the blast. Goku prepares to go back to finding the herb, but a completely frightened Krillin gives up and wants to leave, saying he can't call this fun like Goku can. Krillin yells out that he's scared. Krillin flies away and Goku chases after him, but they are trapped by the forest's trees that blocked the way out. The illusions also re-appear, even more giant than they were before. The fake King Piccolo grabs Goku and Krillin is knocked away by the fake Tambourine. Goku, turning into a Super Saiyan, beats down the illusions attacking him. Krillin crashes to the ground and wonders if Master Roshi intends to keep them there until they complete his errand. The illusions directly attack Krillin as 18 says watching this is sickening. Marron asks what's wrong with her dad, and 18 says he's fighting with himself.

Goku fights with the illusions by himself, constantly destroying them and they keep re-appearing. Goku then becomes a Super Saiyan 3 to destroy them all at once. As he does this, the fake Frieza, Cell, Nappa and Super Buu that are surrounding him grow to be even more giant. Goku realizes something and powers back down to base, beginning to meditate. The illusions then mysteriously disappear, and Goku says he was right. Master Roshi remarks that Goku has figured it out, and wonders if Krillin can do the same. Krillin is then frightened as he's surrounded by a large number of fake Friezas. Goku hears Krillin's scream but comments that if he tries to fly the illusions will re-appear, deciding to call the Nimbus. Krillin wonders why Master Roshi is making him fight these enemies, watching as they transform from Frieza to Tambourine to Cell to Nappa. Krillin resolves to surpass this as he uses Solar Flare on the attacking illusions, but as he does, they grow more giant. Krillin then uses the Destructo Disc, and cuts one fake Nappa in half, but the illusions grow even more. Krillin realizes that the illusions are moving because he is using energy.

[[File:Fightingspirit.png|thumb|left|Krillin's fighting spirit returns]]
Krillin sits down and meditates, and the illusions are frozen in place. Krillin remarks that calming his mind was key, as his fear was causing the illusions to grow gigantic and multiply into bigger numbers. Krillin concentrates his energy, defeating the illusions by attacking him as they are frozen in place. Master Roshi is proud of Krillin for figuring it out, but Baba unleashes one more trick: creating a fake Super Shenron that ambushes Goku and traps him. Goku tells Krillin that he can't go full power, or he'll blow away Nimbus. Krillin prepares to save them both, powering up and attacking Super Shenron with his aura-clad fists. Goku thanks Krillin for saving him, and Nimbus drops him down to the ground and flies away. Krillin powers up and Goku becomes a Super Saiyan Blue, and the two fire Kamehamehas to destroy the Super Shenron illusion. Many herbs of the paradise plant then grow right in front of Goku and Krillin. As they are flying carrying the herbs, Krillin decides to start fighting again, for his sake and his family's sake, wanting to be as strong as Goku.

The two deliver the paradise plant to Master Roshi, and Krillin realizes 18 and Marron were watching him, and 18 is proud of her husband. Master Roshi says there is no real secret skill to boosting energy, and 18 wonders if he bribed them with a false promise, but Krillin corrects her saying it's about controlling the energy and mind. Goku agrees with him, saying that the illusions disappeared only because he and Krillin suppressed their energy. Master Roshi eats the paradise plant, which is for his vitality, exclaiming he can live on for another 1,000 years.

Krillin then has his head shaved bald by 18, and Marron says he looks cool. Goku shows up and wants to spar with Krillin, and Krillin accepts this, happily saying that going Super Saiyan is banned.<ref>''[[Dragon Ball Super (anime)|Dragon Ball Super]]'' episode 76, "[[Conquer the Terrifying Foes! Krillin's Fighting Spirit Rebounds!]]"</ref>

==Anime and Manga Differences==
*In the manga, the death of Bulma is not seen. It was only mentioned that she was caught when she was clearing the dust off of Solar Panels.
*Jaco and Tights make an appearance in the manga.
*Goku and Vegeta's scenes of sparring and their meal alongside Beerus and Whis take place on Beerus' Planet in the anime.
*Trunks and Mai do not use the sewer to travel to Capsule Corp in the anime instead just making their way through the streets.
*The battle between Black and Trunks and Mai takes place on the street outside of Capsule Corp in the anime rather than inside of the building.
*Goku tells Trunks that he was even stronger than Gohan was back during the Cell Games. He makes no such comment in the anime.
*During their match in the manga Goku sneakily uses the Super Saiyan God form to defeat him in one blow. In the anime, Goku as a Super Saiyan 3 was enough to defeat Trunks in one blow.
*The past sequences showing Trunks and the Supreme Kai's battle with Babidi and Dabura is much more extensive than in the anime, showing that Trunks actually trained on the Sacred World of the Kai.
*In the manga, Black does not travel back to the present to fight Goku.
*Future Trunks going to the restaurant with his friends and family does not happen in the anime.
*In the manga, Zamasu fights against Kibito. In the anime they never met, instead Goku went with Beerus and Whis to their world and Goku fought him instead.
*Trunks and the others playing the Kart racing game at Capsule Corporation did not happen in the anime.
*Trunks trains with Vegeta in the Gravity training room in the manga. In the anime, Vegeta spars with Trunks outside and uses his Super Saiyan Blue form.
*Beerus suspecting Kibito of being Black is exclusive to the manga.
*In the anime, Zeno himself is the one who sends the message that he wants to see Goku, and when it is received, Beerus and Whis are alone in their planet instead of Capsule Corporation with everyone else.
*In the manga, it is Kibito who tells Goku and the others about Zamasu visit to Zuno's.
*In the manga, Trunks and Mai have been the only two survivors shown. In the anime there were still groups of resistance soldiers and orphans still alive.
*In the anime, Goku Black had already met Goku and Vegeta upon traveling to the past. In the manga, Goku Black first meets Goku and Vegeta and asks what timeline they came from.
*In the anime, Vegeta immediately goes Super Saiyan Blue. In the manga, Vegeta goes Super Saiyan 2 and then Super Saiyan Blue.
*In the anime, Goku Black immediately goes Super Saiyan Rosé. In the manga, Goku Black reveals his own standard Super Saiyan form (having sparks similar to a Super Saiyan 2) and says he cannot become Super Saiyan Blue even though he possesses the body of Goku from a future timeline.
**Future Trunks reveals in the manga that he knew about Black's Super Saiyan form, saying he hasn't seen him use it in a while. In the anime Future Trunks is shocked to see Black attain his Super Saiyan Rosé form.
*In the anime, Goku goes with Beerus, Whis and Shin (after the initial fight with Black) to Universe 10 to confront Zamasu. In the manga, Beerus and Whis go themselves while Goku goes to fight Black, and Shin later shows up.
*In the anime, the group watches as Zamasu kills Gowasu, and Whis rewinds time to undo his death. In the manga, Shin uses a Time Ring to confirm their suspicions about Zamasu's plans.
*In the anime, Future Zamasu shows up interrupting Black from killing the Saiyans. In the manga, Future Zamasu saves Black from being killed by Vegeta.
**In the manga, Future Zamasu heals Black's injuries.
*Black reveals that he could not fully access Goku's power initially, needing to grow stronger to adjust to it and use it to its full extent.
**Black has been growing stronger by exploiting the Saiyan ability to get stronger by recovering from great injuries, as he gets healed by Future Zamasu whenever he gets injured.
**Using this ability, Black has grown strong enough to gain his version of the Super Saiyan Blue form: Super Saiyan Rosé. Black's godly form is speculated to be pink due to his natural identity as a God, whereas Goku and Vegeta's form is blue due to being mortals possessing godly ''ki'' only upon transforming.
*In the manga, Future Zamasu destroys Goku's bag of Senzu Beans.
*In the manga, Future Zamasu reveals his immortality in a fight with Goku instead of Future Trunks.
*In the manga, Future Zamasu uses his supernatural abilities as a Supreme Kai, such as Telekinesis and magic, to fight Goku.
**Black also used Telekinesis against Vegeta; however, it didn't work on him.
*In the manga, Future Trunks uses Solar Flare to aid in Goku and Vegeta's escape to the past instead of transforming into Super Saiyan Anger like he did in the anime.
*In the manga, it is Goku who suggests using the Evil Containment Wave against Black and Future Zamasu instead of Piccolo
*In the manga, Super Saiyan Rosé is revealed to be the same as Super Saiyan Blue, however in the anime, Super Saiyan Rosè acts as the first Super Saiyan form.
*In the manga, Future Trunks does not turn into Super Saiyan Anger to hold off Black. Instead, he is at his Strengthened Super Saiyan 2 form and gets pummeled by Black, without the help of Future Zamasu.
*Future Mai faces against Goku Black, a scene never seen in the anime before.
*It is revealed by Bulma that through Future Trunks' time machine, the time gap between Future Trunks' world and the Main Timeline is fixed, meaning that for every second that passes in one world, the same amount will pass for the other world. Also, the connection between their timeline and Future Trunks' is weakening.
*Besides Trunks, Shu, Pilaf, Mai, and Bulma none of the Z-Fighters show up in this chapter.
*Gowasu uses the Time Ring to save Future Trunks and Mai.
*In the manga, Future Trunks and Mai are transported to the Sacred World of the Kai to hide from Black, while they never visited it in the anime.
*In the manga, Future Zamasu shows worry that Future Zeno will find out about their plans, a discussion never seen in the anime before.
*Goku Black and Future Zamasu kill most of the remaining humans on Earth.
*In the manga, Gowasu decides to go see Black and Future Zamasu by himself, instead of with Shin in the anime. This leads to Gowasu's supposed death.
*In the manga, Goku mastered the Evil Containment Wave without the help of Turtle.
*Gowasu is near death from Black's attack, however he recovers with a Senzu Bean.
*The involvement of Shin in the main fight.
*In the manga, Bulma does not travel to the future with the Saiyans.
*In the manga, Vegeta is revealed to have the standard Super Saiyan God form.
**He and Goku both use this form to fight against Black and Future Zamasu. Vegeta switching between Super Saiyan God to Super Saiyan Blue in short bursts for attacking and defending, before shifting back to God form to eliminate Blue form's immense stamina drain drawback.
*Goku Black does not resort to mimicking the power of Saiyan rage to form the Violent Fierce God Scythe, nor does it make an appearance. Instead, Black immediately suggests fusion right away.
*Goku uses the Evil Containment Wave, whereas in the anime Future Trunks is the one who uses it as he was forced to learn it by watching a video Bulma recorded of Piccolo demonstrating the technique. Also, in the anime, Future Trunks is already aware of the Evil Containment Wave, while in the manga, he didn't know about it.
**Goku uses a piece of paper he thought was the sealing talisman, however it was a Cabaret Club coupon. In the anime he forgot the talisman and did not bring anything in its place.
*Future Zamasu bickers with Black about having interference in their plans, something Black did not mention to him when recruiting him.
*In the manga, Black is the one to switch his earring to fuse, while in the anime, Future Zamasu does.
*Goku tries to prevent Black and Future Zamasu from fusing, whereas in the anime both he and Vegeta expected them to fuse and prepared for the worst.
*Fused Zamasu displays speed greater than any of the characters in Dragon Ball, so fast none could comprehend what was going on. A similar feat was used by Gogeta.
*Fused Zamasu uses techniques such as telekinesis and Black Ball Rain, instead replaced in the anime with Lightning of Absolution and Blades of Judgement.
*Fused Zamasu uses magic to create blocks of weapons which he used as part of his offensive. Shin did a similar technique when testing the Z Sword. He does not do this in the anime, instead replaced by the Holy Wrath.
*Vegeta refuses to fuse with Goku, similar to the anime. However, it takes convincing by Gowasu and Shin in order for Vegeta to agree to fuse. While in the anime, Vegeta immediately fuses with Goku when Goku says it's the only way.
*In the manga, Vegito eats the last Senzu Bean after fusing. Goku and Vegeta both eat a Senzu Bean before fusing in the anime.
*In the manga, Blue Vegito uses the Spirit Sword to slice up Fused Zamasu's body, while in the anime he attacks the Light of Justice Fused Zamasu with Spirit Stab after catching Fused Zamasu off guard by playing possum after being knocked to the ground.
*In the manga, Vegito easily dominates Fused Zamasu, while in the anime, they are more or less evenly matched.
*In the manga, Vegito claims that Fused Zamasu's fusion would wear off due to neither Black or Future Zamasu being officially named Supreme Kais. In the anime this was never mentioned nor implied, and Fused Zamasu fusion was assumed permanent however Gowasu did explain that Potara lasts an hour for those who are not a Supreme Kai though Fused Zamasu remains fused in the anime and his ability to do so is left unexplained (it's possible that Goku Black's being temporarily promoted to the rank of Supreme Kai when he was still Zamasu is one possible explanation or may be due to the imbalanced nature of the fusion due to Goku Black being mortal while Future Zamasu is immortal, which while destabilizing the fusion causing it to mutate, it somehow renders the fusion permanent).
*In the manga, Gowasu states that Fused Zamasu's fusion will only last an hour due to neither Goku Black nor Future Zamasu being official Supreme Kais (as they were technically both still of Kai rank and had unofficially usurped the position after killing the other Supreme Kais).
**This is later proven to be correct in chapter "[[Will It Be Goku?! Or Zamas?!]]" when Fused Zamasu begins to defuse after an hour, though as the fusion is the result of two versions of Zamasu fusing together Goku Black and Future Zamasu became bound on a cellular level thus allowing them to resist the de-fusion.
*In the manga, Fused Zamasu is truly immortal, while in the anime Fused Zamasu is semi-immortal due to the Black half still being mortal.
*In the manga, Fused Zamasu's regenerative powers are full intact, able to heal anything instantly and perfectly, whereas in the anime his regeneration was impaired, taking noticeably longer and also leaving him mis-shaped.
*The Light of Justice and the Barrier of Light are never seen in the manga, as Fused Zamasu's fusion is seemingly a stable one and did not need such techniques.
*In the anime, Vegito's fusion wears off a few seconds after using the Final Kamehameha. In the manga, it wears off just as he was about to fire the attack.
*No events similar to this chapter occurred in the anime, as immediately after Vegito defused Future Trunks fights Fused Zamasu.
**Fusion Zamasu is revealed to have time-space manipulating powers, enabling him to open portals to redirect his targets.
**In the anime, Future Trunks merely received instructions from Future Shin. In the manga, Future Trunks is revealed to have been trained as an apprentice Supreme Kai by Future Shin, to which gains healing powers. He then heals Goku, enabling him to resume the fight.
***On a related note, the manga establishes that Future Mai being healed had to do with Future Trunks' innate healing powers from the ritual, while the anime had it be from the Senzu Bean (which had been what was originally implied in the Manga).
***Despite Gohan having gone through a similar ritual to become a Supreme Kai apprentice, which unleashed his Ultimate State, he has never shown signs of healing powers.
**Goku refines Super Saiyan Blue into a fully charged state, enabling him to fight on par with Fusion Zamasu, although at the cost of severely straining his body, causing great pain when losing control and potential destroy his body.
*None of the events in the manga occur in the anime, except for the occurrence of Fused Zamasu's Grotesque form being due to catastrophic mutations, Fused Zamasu being sliced in half by Future Trunks, and the birth of Infinite Zamasu.
*Goku attempts to kill Fused Zamasu with Destruction but is forced to stop due to Zamasu using Future Mai as a human shield.
*Vegeta uses a new technique never shown in the anime, the Gamma Burst Flash, which he uses against Fused Zamasu.
*Black and Zamasu are defused, but his immortality tries to regenerate into Fused Zamasu, resulting in Fused Zamasu transforming into an amalgam between the fusees. Instead of Black's mortal DNA overwriting Future Zamasu's, being the cause of Fused Zamasu's Grotesque form, it is due to the Potara Fusion running out on Fused Zamasu, and his immortality trying to compensate for that.
**After the defusing, Black and Zamasu each transform back into their fusion and start multiplying infinitely.
**With that noted, Infinite Zamasu's physical body is not dead in the manga, instead it is Fused Zamasu's evolved state.
*Zamasu states that he possesses his own Time Machine, noting they were created in Universe 12, and tells the heroes that if they escaped to the past then he would follow them there.
*Pilaf asking Future Mai about his future self and the latter being nervous to answer.
*Instead of just erasing all of the timeline's universes like he did in the anime, Future Zeno erases the entire timeline in the manga - causing it's Time Ring to cease to exist.
*Whis bows to Future Zeno upon his arrival along with Beerus and Shin, whereas in the anime he does not.
*Future Trunks plans to go to a future before Dabura killed Future Shin.
*Whis does not volunteer to travel to the future and warn Future Beerus about Zamasu.
*In the manga, Beerus says that he cannot kill immortal beings. However, when asked by Goku how he could kill Zamasu, Beerus tells him, "Don't underestimate a God of Destruction."
*The events after Zamasu's demise and Future Trunks' return to his timeline, as shown above, aren't in the manga.

==Characters==
{|
|valign="top"|
===Main===
*[[Goku]]
*[[Vegeta]]
*[[Future Trunks]]
*[[Future Mai]]
*[[Bulma]]
*[[Beerus]]
*[[Whis]]
*[[Goku Black]]
*[[Zamasu]]
*[[Gowasu]]
*[[Shin]]
*[[Future Zamasu]]
*[[Fused Zamasu]]
*[[Vegito]]
*[[Infinite Zamasu]]
*[[Future Zeno]]
|valign="top"|

===Supporting===
*[[Piccolo]] {{Small|(Anime only)}}
*[[Krillin]] {{Small|(Anime only)}}
*[[Trunks]]
*[[Gohan]]
*[[Goten]] {{Small|(Anime only)}}
*[[Chi-Chi]] {{Small|(Anime only)}}
*[[Android 18]] {{Small|(Anime only)}}
*[[Marron]] {{Small|(Anime only)}}
*[[Master Roshi]]
*[[Emperor Pilaf]]
*[[Shu]]
*[[Mai]]
*[[Earth's Resistance]] {{Small|(Anime only)}}
*[[Future Yajirobe]] {{Small|(Anime only)}}
*[[Haru]] {{Small|(Anime only)}}
*[[Maki (Future timeline)|Maki]] {{Small|(Anime only)}}
|valign="top"|

===Minor===
*[[Future Scratch]]
*[[Jaco]]
*[[Tights]] {{Small|(''Manga only'')}}
*[[Yamcha]] {{Small|(Anime only)}}
*[[Cell]] {{Small|(Anime only)}}
*[[Future Bulma]] {{Small|(Anime only)}}
*[[Yajirobe]]
*[[Korin]]
*[[Future Shin]] {{Small|(''Manga only'')}}
*[[Future Kibito]] {{Small|(''Manga only'')}}
*[[Future Pui Pui]] {{Small|(''Manga only'')}}
*[[Future Yakon]] {{Small|(''Manga only'')}}
*[[Future Babidi]]
*[[Future Dabura]]
*[[Future Old Kai]] {{Small|(''Manga only'')}}
*[[Future Android 17]] {{Small|("[[Bonus Story (The Winning Universe is Decided!)|Bonus Story]]")}}
*[[Future Android 18]] {{Small|("Bonus Story")}}
*[[Future Gohan]]
*[[Future Goku]] {{Small|("Bonus Story")}}
*[[Future Krillin]] {{Small|("Bonus Story")}}
*[[Future Piccolo]] {{Small|("Bonus Story")}}
*[[Future Pilaf]] {{Small|("Bonus Story")}}
*[[Future Shenron]] {{Small|("Bonus Story")}}
*[[Future Shu]] {{Small|("Bonus Story")}}
*[[Future Vegeta]] {{Small|("Bonus Story")}}
*[[Dr. Brief]]
*[[Scratch]]
*[[Bikini]]
*[[Videl]] {{Small|(Anime only)}}
*[[Pan]] {{Small|(Anime only)}}
*[[Mr. Satan]] {{Small|(Anime only)}}
*[[Babarian]]
*[[Zeno]]
*[[Zeno's Attendants]]
*[[Grand Minister]]
*[[Kibito]]
*[[Old Kai]]
*[[Hit]]
*[[Zuno]]
*[[Zuno's Attendants]]
*[[Super Shenron]]
*[[King Piccolo]]
*[[Turtle]]
*[[Future Turtle]] {{Small|(Anime only)}}
*[[Future Android 8]] {{Small|(Anime only)}}
*[[King Kai]] {{Small|(Anime only)}}
*[[Bubbles]] {{Small|(Anime only)}}
*[[Gregory]] {{Small|(Anime only)}}
*[[Oolong]] {{Small|(Anime only)}}
|valign="top"|


*[[Puar]] {{Small|(Anime only)}}
*[[Arale Norimaki]] {{Small|(Anime only)}}
*[[Senbei Norimaki]] {{Small|(Anime only)}}
*[[Gatchan]] {{Small|(Anime only)}}
*[[Dr. Mashirito]] {{Small|(Anime only)}}
*[[Champa]] {{Small|(Anime only)}}
*[[Vados]] {{Small|(Anime only)}}
*[[Botamo]] {{Small|(Anime only)}}
*[[Auta Magetta]] {{Small|(Anime only)}}
*[[Cabba]] {{Small|(Anime only)}}
*[[Octo (race)|Octo]] {{Small|(Anime only)}}
*[[Watagash]] {{Small|(Anime only)}}
*[[Barry Kahn]] {{Small|(Anime only)}}
*[[Cocoa Amaguri]] {{Small|(Anime only)}}
*[[Duo of Robbers]] {{Small|(Anime only)}}
*[[Fortuneteller Baba]] {{Small|(Anime only)}}
*[[Nappa]] {{Small|(Anime only)}}
*[[Ginyu]] {{Small|(Anime only)}}
*[[Burter]] {{Small|(Anime only)}}
*[[Recoome]] {{Small|(Anime only)}}
*[[Jeice]] {{Small|(Anime only)}}
*[[Guldo]] {{Small|(Anime only)}}
*[[Frieza]] {{Small|(Anime only)}}
*[[Dabura]] {{Small|(Anime only)}}
*[[Super Buu]] {{Small|(Anime only)}}
*[[Tambourine]] {{Small|(Anime only)}}
*[[Dabura]] {{Small|(Anime only)}}
*[[Raditz]] {{Small|(Anime only)}}
*[[Baby Gamera]] {{Small|(Anime only)}}
|}

==Battles Featured==
;Manga
*Goku vs. Vegeta
*Future Trunks and Future Mai vs. Goku Black
*Future Trunks (Base/Super Saiyan 2) vs. Goku Black
*Goku (Super Saiyan 2/Super Saiyan 3/Super Saiyan God) vs. Future Trunks (Super Saiyan 2)
*Future Trunks (Super Saiyan/Super Saiyan 2), Future Shin, and Future Kibito vs. Future Babidi, Future Dabura, Future Pui Pui, and Future Yakon {{F}}
*Kibito vs. Zamasu
*Babarian vs. Babarian
*Zamasu vs. Babarian
*Vegeta vs. Future Trunks
*Vegeta (Super Saiyan 2/Super Saiyan Blue) vs. Goku Black (Base/Super Saiyan)
*Beerus vs. Zamasu
*Vegeta (Super Saiyan Blue) vs. Goku Black (Super Saiyan/Super Saiyan Rosé)
*Goku (Super Saiyan/Super Saiyan Blue) vs. Future Zamasu
*Future Trunks (Super Saiyan 2) & Future Mai vs. Future Zamasu & Goku Black (Super Saiyan Rosé)
*Future Trunks (Super Saiyan 2) & Future Mai vs. Goku Black (Super Saiyan Rosé)
*Shin vs. Future Zamasu
*Future Trunks (Super Saiyan 2) vs. Goku Black (Super Saiyan Rosé)
*Vegeta (Super Saiyan God/Super Saiyan Blue/Super Saiyan God-Blue) vs. Goku Black (Super Saiyan Rosé)
*Goku (Super Saiyan Blue/Super Saiyan God) vs. Future Zamasu
*Goku (Super Saiyan God/Super Saiyan Blue) and Vegeta (Super Saiyan God/Super Saiyan Blue) vs. Fused Zamasu (Super Saiyan Rosé)
*Goku (Super Saiyan Blue/Base) vs. Fused Zamasu (Super Saiyan Rosé)
*Vegito (Base/Super Saiyan Blue) vs. Fused Zamasu (Super Saiyan Rosé)
*Goku and Vegeta vs. Fused Zamasu (Super Saiyan Rosé)
*Goku (Perfected Super Saiyan Blue) vs. Fused Zamasu (Super Saiyan Rosé)
*Future Trunks (Super Saiyan 2) vs. Fused Zamasu (Super Saiyan Rosé)
*Future Trunks (Super Saiyan 2/Base) vs. Goku Black
*Goku vs. Goku Black (Infinite Zamasu/Super Saiyan Rosé) and Future Zamasu (Infinite Zamasu/Super Saiyan Rosé)
*Vegeta (Super Saiyan Blue) vs. Goku Black (Infinite Zamasu/Super Saiyan Rosé) and Future Zamasu (Infinite Zamasu/Super Saiyan Rosé)
*Future Zeno vs. Infinite Zamasu (Super Saiyan Rosé)

;Anime
*Vegeta (Base/Super Saiyan Blue) vs. Whis
*Future Trunks vs. Goku Black
*Future Mai vs. Goku Black
*Future Trunks (Super Saiyan) vs. Goku Black
*Future Trunks (Super Saiyan) vs. Future Dabura {{F}}
*Future Trunks (Super Saiyan) vs. Goku Black {{F}}
*Goku (Super Saiyan 2/Super Saiyan 3) vs. Future Trunks (Super Saiyan 2)
*Goku (Base/Super Saiyan 2) vs. Goku Black
*Future Trunks (Base/Super Saiyan) vs. Goku Black {{F}}
*Goku (Super Saiyan 2) vs. Zamasu
*Future Trunks vs. Goku Black {{Small|(Image Training)}}
*Future Trunks (Super Saiyan 2/Super Saiyan Third Grade) vs. Vegeta (Super Saiyan Blue)
*Zamasu vs. Babarian
*Vegeta (Super Saiyan Blue) vs. Goku Black (Base/Super Saiyan Rosé)
*Goku (Super Saiyan Blue) vs. Goku Black (Super Saiyan Rosé)
*Goku (Super Saiyan Blue) vs. Future Zamasu and Goku Black (Super Saiyan Rosé)
*Future Trunks (Super Saiyan 2) vs. Goku Black (Super Saiyan Rosé)
*Goku (Super Saiyan Blue) vs. Goku Black (Super Saiyan Rosé)
*Future Trunks (Super Saiyan 2) vs. Future Zamasu
*Goku (Super Saiyan Blue) and Future Trunks (Super Saiyan 2) vs. Goku Black (Super Saiyan Rosé) and Future Zamasu
*Trunks (Super Saiyan) vs. Future Trunks
*Beerus vs. Zamasu
*Vegeta (Super Saiyan Blue) vs. Goku Black (Super Saiyan Rosé)
*Goku (Super Saiyan Blue), Vegeta (Super Saiyan Blue) and Future Trunks (Super Saiyan 2) vs. Goku Black (Base/Super Saiyan Rosé) and Future Zamasu
*Goku (Super Saiyan Blue) vs. Goku Black (Super Saiyan Rosé) and Future Zamasu
*Future Trunks (Super Saiyan 2) vs. Goku Black (Super Saiyan Rosé)
*Vegeta vs. Future Zamasu
*Future Trunks (Super Saiyan Anger) and Vegeta (Super Saiyan Blue) vs. Goku Black (Super Saiyan Rosé) and Future Zamasu
*Future Trunks (Super Saiyan Anger/Super Saiyan) vs. Goku Black (Super Saiyan Rosé) and Future Zamasu
*Vegeta (Super Saiyan Blue) vs. Goku Black (Super Saiyan Rosé)
*Goku (Super Saiyan Blue) vs. Future Zamasu
*Goku (Super Saiyan Blue) and Vegeta (Super Saiyan Blue) vs. Goku Black (Super Saiyan Rosé)
*Goku (Super Saiyan Blue) and Vegeta (Super Saiyan Blue) vs. Fused Zamasu
*Vegeta (Super Saiyan Blue) and Future Trunks (Super Saiyan Anger) vs. Fused Zamasu
*Goku (Super Saiyan Blue/Super Saiyan Blue Kaio-ken) vs. Fused Zamasu
*Vegito (Super Saiyan Blue) vs. Fused Zamasu (Half-Corrupted/Huge Final Stage)
*Future Trunks (Super Saiyan Anger) vs. Fused Zamasu (Half-Corrupted/Huge Final Stage)
*Goku, Vegeta, and Future Trunks (Super Saiyan Anger) vs. Infinite Zamasu
*Future Mai vs. Infinite Zamasu
*Future Zeno vs. Infinite Zamasu
*Vegeta vs. Arale Norimaki
*Goku (Super Saiyan Blue) vs. Arale Norimaki
*Goku (Base/Super Saiyan Blue), Gohan, Trunks, Piccolo, Krillin, and Yamcha vs. Champa, Botamo, Cabba, Auta Magetta, Vegeta (Base/Super Saiyan Blue) and Goten
*Beerus vs. Champa
*Vegeta (Base/Super Saiyan Blue) vs. Whis
*Goku (Super Saiyan Blue) vs. Hit
*Goku (Super Saiyan Blue) vs. Hit
*Gohan (Great Saiyaman) vs. Duo of Robbers
*Gohan (Great Saiyaman) vs. Watagash (Infected Robber)
*Gohan (Great Saiyaman/Super Saiyan) vs. Watagash (Infected Barry Kahn)
*Goku (Base/Super Saiyan) vs. Gohan (Great Saiyaman/Super Saiyan)
*Goku vs. Krillin
*Goku (Weighted Turtle Suit) vs. Krillin
*Goku (Base/Super Saiyan/Super Saiyan 3/Super Saiyan Blue) and Krillin vs. Tambourine (illusion), King Piccolo (illusion), Vegeta (illusion), Nappa (illusion), Ginyu (illusion), Burter (illusion), Jeice (illusion), Recoome (illusion), Guldo (illusion), Frieza (Final Form) (illusion), Cell (Perfect Form) (illusion), Super Buu (illusion), Dabura (illusion), Raditz (illusion), Bulma (illusion), and Super Shenron (illusion)

==Releases==
===Funimation Blu-ray and DVD Sets===
*Dragon Ball Super: Part Four (40-52) (only episodes 47-52 are part of the "Future" Trunks Saga)
*Dragon Ball Super: Part Five (53-65)
*Dragon Ball Super: Part Six (66-78) (only episodes 66-76 are part of the "Future" Trunks Saga)

{{Scroll box
|content=<gallery widths="120" captionalign="center">
Dragon Ball Super Part 4 Blu-ray.jpg|Part Four Blu-ray
Dragon Ball Super Part 4 DVD.jpg|Part Four DVD
Dragon Ball Super Part 5 Blu-ray.jpg|Part Five Blu-ray
Dragon Ball Super Part 5 DVD.jpg|Part Five DVD
Dragon Ball Super Part 6 Blu-ray.jpg|Part Six Blu-Ray
Dragon Ball Super Part 6 DVD.jpg|Part Six DVD
DBSPart6BluRay.jpg|Part Six Blu-ray UK cover
</gallery>
}}

==Manga Chapters==
{|style="width:60%; border:1px solid gray; border-collapse:collapse;" border="1" cellpadding="3" cellspacing="0"
|style="width:6%; background:#F2F2F2;"|Chapter&nbsp;#
|style="width:94%; background:#F2F2F2;" align="left"|Title
|-
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="center"|14
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="left"|'''"[[SOS from the Future]]"'''
|-
! align="center" style="background:#F2F2F2;"|Extra
|align="left" style="background:#F2F2F2;"|'''"[[Bonus Story (The Winning Universe is Decided!)|Bonus Story]]"'''
|-
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="center"|15
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="left"|'''"[[Hope!! Once Again]]"'''
|-
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="center"|16
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="left"|'''"[[Future Trunks's Past]]"'''
|-
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="center"|17
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="left"|'''"[[Zamas: The Next Lord of Lords from Universe 10]]"'''
|-
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="center"|18
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="left"|'''"[[Goku Black's True Identity]]"'''
|-
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="center"|19
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="left"|'''"[[Another Zamas]]"'''
|-
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="center"|20
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="left"|'''"[[The Zero Mortal Project]]"'''
|-
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="center"|21
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="left"|'''"[[Last Chance For Hope]]"'''
|-
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="center"|22
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="left"|'''"[[Zamas's Final Trump Card]]"'''
|-
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="center"|23
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="left"|'''"[[The Potara's True Worth]]"'''
|-
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="center"|24
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="left"|'''"[[Son Goku's Evolution]]"'''
|-
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="center"|25
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="left"|'''"[[Will It Be Goku?! Or Zamas?!]]"'''
|-
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="center"|26
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="left"|'''"[[The Decisive Battle! Farewell, Trunks!]]"'''
|-
! align="center" style="background:#F2F2F2;"|Extra
|align="left" style="background:#F2F2F2;"|'''"[[Bonus Story (The Decisive Battle! Farewell, Trunks!)|Bonus Story 2]]"'''
|}

==Episode List==
{|style="width:80%; border:1px solid gray; border-collapse:collapse;" border="1" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="3"
|style="width:6%; background:#F2F2F2;"|Episode&nbsp;#
|style="width:94%; background:#F2F2F2;" align="left"|Title
|-
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="center"|47
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="left"|'''"[[SOS from the Future: A Dark New Enemy Appears!]]"'''
|-
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="center"|48
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="left"|'''"[[Hope!! Redux Awaken in the Present, Trunks]]"'''
|-
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="center"|49
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="left"|'''"[[A Message From the Future The Incursion of Goku Black!]]"'''
|-
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="center"|50
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="left"|'''"[[Goku vs. Black! A Closed-Off Road to the Future!]]"'''
|-
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="center"|51
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="left"|'''"[[Feelings That Transcend Time: Trunks and Mai]]"'''
|-
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="center"|52
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="left"|'''"[[Master and Pupil Reunited! Gohan and "Future" Trunks!]]"'''
|-
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="center"|53
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="left"|'''"[[Uncover Black's Identity! Off to the 10th Universe's World of the Kai's!]]"'''
|-
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="center"|54
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="left"|'''"[[He Who is of Saiyan Blood Trunks's Resolve]]"'''
|-
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="center"|55
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="left"|'''"[[I'd Like to See Goku, You See A Summons From Grand Zeno!]]"'''
|-
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="center"|56
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="left"|'''"[[Rematch with Goku Black! Enter Super Saiyan Rosé]]"'''
|-
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="center"|57
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="left"|'''"[[A God with an Invincible Body The Advent of Zamasu]]"'''
|-
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="center"|58
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="left"|'''"[[Zamasu and Black The Duo's Mystery Deepens]]"'''
|-
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="center"|59
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="left"|'''"[[Protect The Supreme Kai Gowasu Destroy Zamasu!]]"'''
|-
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="center"|60
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="left"|'''"[[Into the Future Again Goku Black's True Identity Revealed!]]"'''
|-
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="center"|61
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="left"|'''"[[Zamasu's Ambition The Storied "Project 0 Mortals" of Terror]]"'''
|-
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="center"|62
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="left"|'''"[[I Will Defend the World! Trunks' Furious Burst of Super Power!]]"'''
|-
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="center"|63
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="left"|'''"[[Don't You Disgrace Saiyan Cells! Vegeta's Fierce Battle Commences!]]"'''
|-
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="center"|64
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="left"|'''"[[Worship Me! Give Praise Unto Me! The Explosive Birth of a Merged Zamasu!]]"'''
|-
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="center"|65
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="left"|'''"[[Final Judgement? The Ultimate Power of an Absolute God]]"'''
|-
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="center"|66
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="left"|'''"[[Showdown! The Miraculous Power of Unyielding Warriors]]"'''
|-
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="center"|67
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="left"|'''"[[With New Hope in His Heart - Farewell, Trunks]]"'''
|-
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="center"|68
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="left"|'''"[[Come Forth, Shenron! Whose Wish Will Be Granted?]]"'''
|-
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="center"|69
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="left"|'''"[[Goku vs. Arale! An Off-the-Wall Battle Spells the End of the Earth?]]"'''
|-
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="center"|70
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="left"|'''"[[A Challenge From Champa! This Time, a Baseball Game!]]"'''
|-
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="center"|71
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="left"|'''"[[Goku Dies! An Assassination That Must Be Executed!]]"'''
|-
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="center"|72
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="left"|'''"[[Will He Strike Back? The Unseen Killing Technique!]]"'''
|-
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="center"|73
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="left"|'''"[[Gohan's Plight! The Preposterous Great Saiyaman Film Adaptation?!]]"'''
|-
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="center"|74
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="left"|'''"[[For My Beloved Ones! The Indomitable Great Saiyaman!]]"'''
|-
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="center"|75
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="left"|'''"[[Goku and Krillin! Back to the Old Familiar Training Ground!]]"'''
|-
|style="background:#F2F2F2;" align="center"|76
|align="left" style="background:#F2F2F2;"|'''"[[Conquer the Terrifying Foes! Krillin's Fighting Spirit Rebounds!]]"'''
|}

==Video Game Appearances==
*''[[Dragon Ball Heroes]]''
*''[[Dragon Ball Z: Dokkan Battle]]''
*''[[Dragon Ball Fusions]]''
*''[[Dragon Ball Xenoverse 2]]''
*''[[Dragon Ball Z: Kakarot]]'' (''-Trunks- The Warrior of Hope'' DLC)
*''[[Dragon Ball: Sparking! Zero]]''

The saga was loosely adapted in ''[[Dragon Ball Heroes]]'', split into three parts: the '''"Future Trunks" Saga''' released in God Mission 9 focused primarily on Future Trunks' initial battle with Goku Black in the future, while also including a strengthened version of [[Dr. Gero]]; the '''Rebellious Zamasu Saga''' released in God Mission 10 focused on Zamasu and Gowasu, including the Babarians on Planet Babari and ending with Zamasu's murder of Gowasu; and the '''Fused Zamasu Saga''' released in SDBH Mission 1, which briefly covered the major fights in the saga and ended with a battle against Fused Zamasu with Gowasu on the player's team.

The anime's version of this saga appears in ''Xenoverse 2'' as part of the ''Super Pack 4'' DLC and it is known as the '''Warrior of Hope Saga'''.

The manga's version of Future Trunks training with the Supreme Kai and battles with Future Babidi's Forces is adapted as part of the third DLC of ''Kakarot'' as "The Warrior of Hope Episode 3".

==Trivia==
*This is the first Dragon Ball saga where the main antagonist has successfully completed their evil plan and lost at the same time; with the present day Zamasu gaining Goku's body and killing everyone in his timeline, Future Zamasu wishes for immortality and goes about enacting his plan in the future timeline, yet both eventually lost at the hands of Future Trunks as Fused Zamasu.
**Also, this is the first saga where the protagonists could not save the world. Their last resort, Future Zeno, erased the whole universe from existence to eliminate the villain.
*This is also the first saga to feature a villain created by [[Potara Fusion]], in the form of Fused Zamasu. It is also the second saga to feature a fused villain created from two counterparts of the same person the first being [[Super 17]] (the fusion of [[Hell Fighter 17]] and [[Android 17]]) from the [[Super 17 Saga]].
**It is the first Dragon Ball saga to introduce a fused antagonist created through Potara fusion, Fused Zamasu. The [[Universe Survival Saga]] is the second with [[Kefla]] (she is heroic antagonist, as opposed to a villain due to the nature of the [[Tournament of Power]] itself as Kefla was fighting to keep Universe 6 from being erased). It is also the only saga where two Potara fusions fight against one another.
*This is the second ''Dragon Ball'' saga where a major villain steals Goku's body, the first being when Captain Ginyu stole Goku's body during the [[Captain Ginyu Saga]].
*If one counts the [[Garlic Jr. Saga]], this is the second saga to feature a villain with [[immortality]]. It is the first manga saga to feature an immortal villain as the Garlic Jr. Saga was [[filler]].
*This is the second ''Dragon Ball'' saga where Future Trunks defeats (and physically kills) the saga's main villains when he kills Fused Zamasu's physical body (however Fused Zamasu's [[Infinite Zamasu|bodiless essence]] survives due to his semi-immortality and is erased by [[Future Zeno]]), the first being the [[Trunks Saga]] when he killed Mecha Frieza and King Cold. Interestingly, both sagas are named after Future Trunks. However it should be noted this only applies to the anime as Fused Zamasu and Infinite Zamasu are completely immortal in the manga. 
*In the anime, this is the third saga, where the main villain is physically killed by a variation of the [[Spirit Bomb]] as Future Trunks uses the [[Sword of Hope]] to kill Fused Zamasu's body with the [[Final Hope Slash]], the first being [[Kid Buu]] with the [[Super Spirit Bomb]] in the [[Kid Buu Saga]] and the second being [[Syn Shenron]]'s destruction via [[Super Ultra Spirit Bomb]] in the [[Shadow Dragon Saga]].

==Gallery==
{{Scroll box
|content=<gallery widths="133" captionalign="center">
FT character art.jpg|"Future" Trunks Saga character art
Scan 01-05-2017 1031.jpg|"Future" Trunks Saga aftermath character art
Vol7 art book1.jpg|"Future" Trunks Saga aftermath character art
Vol7 art book2.jpg|"Future" Trunks Saga aftermath character art
Future Trunks Arc key-art.jpg|"Future" Trunks arc key art
DragonBallSuper-FutureTrunksSaga.png
tumblr o937vfpHBx1r87g0to1 540.jpg|Dragon Ball Super Calender; July
F Trunks Arc History Chart.jpg|Toei's "Future" Trunks Arc History Poster
Trunks VJump.jpg|Colored manga image
SS Black colored.jpg|Colored manga image
God Vegeta VJump.jpg|Colored manga image
"Future" Trunks Saga - 53 7.png
"Future" Trunks Saga - 53 8.png
"Future" Trunks Saga - 53 9.png
"Future" Trunks Saga - 53 10.png
"Future" Trunks Saga - Ep54 1.png
"Future" Trunks Saga - Ep54 2.png
"Future" Trunks Saga - Ep54 3.png
"Future" Trunks Saga - Ep54 5.png
"Future" Trunks Saga - Ep54 12.png
"Future" Trunks Saga - Ep54 14.png
"Future" Trunks Saga - Ep54 20.png
"Future" Trunks Saga - Ep54 21.png
</gallery>
}}

==References==
{{Reflist}}

==Site Navigation==
{{"Future" Trunks Saga}}
{{Sagas}}

[[ca:Saga d'en Trunks del Futur]]
[[es:Arco de Trunks del «Futuro»]]
[[fr:Saga de Trunks du futur]]
[[Category:Sagas]]
[[Category:Dragon Ball Super sagas]]
[[Category:"Future" Trunks Saga]]
[[Category:Dragon Ball Super]]