{{icons|mariobaseball}}
{{cleanup|Links and formatting}}
[[File:Challenge Mode MSB.png|thumb|Wario in the map of Challenge Mode]]
'''Challenge Mode''' is a single-player mode in ''[[Mario Superstar Baseball]]''.

==Gameplay==
The player selects a pre-built team and must defeat all the other teams; at first Bowser's team is the last team to beat for the cup, and must be unlocked before the player can use him. There are six teams, each led by one of the Captains (Mario, Peach, Yoshi, Donkey Kong, Wario, and Bowser), features a secondary captain (Luigi, Daisy, Birdo, Diddy Kong, Waluigi, and Bowser Jr.), and is filled with a mix of sub characters, some of which are duplicated within a team, but do not appear on any other team. For example, Mario's team consists of Mario, Luigi, Monty Mole, three Piantas and three Nokis, Princess Peach's team consists of Princess Peach, Princess Daisy, Toadette, Toadsworth, and five Toads, Wario's team consists of Wario, Waluigi, Boo, King Boo, Petey Piranha, and four Magikoopas, Yoshi's team consists of Yoshi, Birdo, Baby Mario, Baby Luigi, and five Shy Guys, Donkey Kong's team consists of Donkey Kong, Diddy Kong, Dixie Kong, Goomba, Paragoomba, two Koopa Troopas, and two Koopa Paratroopas and Bowser's team consists of Bowser, Bowser Jr., four Dry Bones, Hammer Bro, Fire Bro, and Boomerang Bro.

Players challenge the other teams, beating the other four opens the path to Bowser's castle. The secondary purpose of defeating other teams is to recruit other characters to improve ones team. On opposing teams, each character has a set of scouting flags. During the game players will have mission objectives like "Strike 'em out", or "Score a run", that earn flags; if one gets all the flags of a particular character and wins the game, that character will be recruited. Flags are cumulative, so if the player doesn't get all the flags in a game, or loses the game after getting all the flags, the flags earned will remain when the team is challenged again; a team can be challenged as long as the captain of the team is not recruited. Players of a different color (such as Purple Toad and Yellow Magikoopa) can't be recruited and can only be played in mini-games and playing with the teams they start on (ex. Green Toad with Peach).

If the team captain is recruited, his or her team will disband; any characters from that team that were not recruited will join a team led by Bowser Jr. Another way to recruit characters is by a mercy win; if either team is leading by at least ten runs at the end of an inning, the game is called out of mercy to the losing team. If the player wins a game in this fashion, all characters on the opposing team will be so impressed that they will immediately join.

After every game or mini-game, Bowser Jr. will wander around the map; if the player runs into him, they will be forced to play a game in the bottom of the 9th inning, with the player randomly chosen as visitor or home. If the player's team is the visiting team, then they will have the lead and must stop Bowser Jr. from mounting a comeback; otherwise, it is the player's job to mount a comeback. Beating Bowser Jr. earns the player one hundred Coins to use in the shop, while losing costs the player half their Coins. It should be noted that if you have an odd Coin count and you challenge Bowser Jr. and lose, your Coins will be rounded up (ex: if you have 101 Coins and lose, you will have 51 Coins, not 50). Bowser Jr.'s team also has players from disbanded teams that the player can recruit; in which case the only mission objective is "Win the game.".

There is a shop located on the map for purchasing power-ups, each worth a certain number of coins that the player earns from the mini-games or Bowser Jr. In order for a Captain to use their special abilities, they must be purchased from the shop; these power-ups are permanent, and can be carried over into other Challenge Mode games by continuing from a previously cleared game. Other power-ups offer a temporary boost to a stat for all characters on their team, but they only last for one game, win or lose. Toad runs the shop.

Another goal during Challenge Mode is the Superstar quest; each character has a set of requirement that earn Stars. If a character meets all of his or her requirements, then the character upgrades to a Superstar, and gets a boost in all their abilities. Also, once a character becomes a Superstar, the Superstar version of the character can be used in other game modes. There's a simple way to figure out the number of superstar missions per player. The captain of the team has 10 missions. The 2nd captain has eight. Minor characters have six. And characters of race (excluding Monty Mole who has six) have four. Note that players like Red Koopa and Black Shy Guy can be unlocked by completing the main changing color player like Blue Pianta and Blue Noki.

There are four difficulty settings for challenge mode that are similar to those of Mario Kart: Double Dash!! - Mushroom (easy), Flower (medium), Star (hard), and Special (very hard). On Mushroom, Flower, and Star difficulty setting, you challenge four other teams that you will play three innings. After each team has been beaten at least once, you can play Bowser for five innings. On Special difficulty setting, the innings change: you challenge four other teams that you will play 5 innings, then beat Bowser's team that you will play seven innings. Once the player clears Special difficulty, then Bowser is selectable as a team captain. When using him as a team captain, the rules slightly change: Bowser has to beat the initial five teams, then face a team composed of Mario and eight other captains (One character is exempt at random); Bowser can still recruit other characters, except the captains and sub-captains; and Bowser Jr. does not wander the map to challenge a player.

==External links==
{{Wikipedia|Mario Superstar Baseball}}