{{Infobox Location
|name        = The Emerald Circus
|image       = [[Image:emeraldcircus.PNG]]
|located     = [[Prism Island]] (green region)
|inhabitants = Various enemies
|games       = ''[[Paper Mario: Color Splash]]''
}}'''The Emerald Circus''' is a green level in ''[[Paper Mario: Color Splash]]''. It houses a single tent. The entire Red Toad Rescue Squad needs to be gathered here in order to get inside. The green Big Paint Star is found here, with Lemmy guarding it as the 6th Koopaling boss.

To unlock this level, you have to get the Green Paint Star in Mossrock Theater.

The level starts off with a Circus Tent, and some other stuff. To enter the Circus, you have to gather all 49 Red Rescue Squad Members because the show will not start unless they have a huge audience ready to watch in one piece.

Once you enter the Circus, the show starts and it starts off with a Shy Guy introducing the first act. Lemmy jumps in and does the first act which is making the Shy Guy vanish into thin air only to reappear in one of the spectator spots in the audience. After that, a Big Paint Star is shown, and then Lemmy starts off with making it "disappear". He then asks Mario and Huey a question on where did it go and then says they probably don't need it in the first place, most likely even taunting them too. Then Lemmy vanishes. Apparently, Lemmy vanishing was completely not part of the act, and the audience starts to demand for more illusions or acts. This gives Mario and Huey time to go back outside the map.

After getting outside the map, it seems like the Yoshis from the cage on the side on the Circus have escaped, and theres a Green Yoshi showing up (Only appears when you paint the "It" from the Dark Bloo Inn.) thanking you for helping it escape the Inn. It also makes an opening to access more of the back of the circus, so there is 2 extra colorless spots, specifically a circle and a star. When entering the backstage, you can see lots of boxes and crates, a poster and a cutout. There is also other stuff, save block and a rope you can pull. When you pull the rope, a disco ball Thing falls out of the roof and you can squeeze it. You can also enter the stage from it.

Proceeding with entering the stage, it seems like the intermission is over. Mario and Huey have to perform an act to entertain the audience. Huey comes first, but his "tin can" joke doesn't seem to impress the audience at all. Mario comes next, and his Mega Mushroom act entertained the audience very well. But it was merely the first act, because the next act will be fighting enemies. The first enemy is a 8-headed, 16 eyed Unicycle Shy Guys. and then after defeating it you will gain 40 coins from the Toad Audience. The Shy Guys will also be booing and be unimpressed from it. The next enemy is 2 Wild Dino Rhino and an Animal Trainer Shy Guy. You might also encounter a Yoshi, Blocking the attack is crucial, because when you do not; you will be crumpled and be unable to move. When you defeat the Animal Trainer, you will enrage the Wild Dino Rhino and repeatedly attack you more than usual. Also, at the end of a turn, a backup trainer will always come and calm down the Wild Dino Rhino. After defeating all 3, you get 40 coins from the Toad Audience again. The third enemy you'll be facing is the Buzzy Beetle Tower, and a Shy Guy with a spiky helmet. There will also be always a backup Shy Guy for this too. After almost defeating it, the tower loses balance and the shy guy runs away. They should be vulnerable and be defeated immediately upon hitting. After defeating all 4, you will gain another 40 coins from Toad Audience. The last enemy you will be facing is the Final Act of a 14-Stack Trampoline Shy Guys. These Shy Guys can avoid any damage before making them lose their balance with a hammer, even when you hit them with a POW block. However, it will avoid basically any Thing even if you make it lose their balance. After defeating all the stack, you win the battle and get 20 coins, and a heart. They will also throw a crate to enter the stage without having to go back to the backstage. And a save block to save incase you lost against the Lemmy bossfight, so you don't have to deal with all the enemies again.

== Lemmy Boss fight ==
A trampoline will be left from the 14 stack, so you will be able to reach the rooftop of the Circus. Once you reach it, you can see a Green Big Paint Star, and Lemmy hiding in the back aswell. Lemmy couldn't actually make the Big Paint Star dissapear, so the only thing it could do was to put it on the top of the circus. His goal was to steal the Big Paint Star, aswell embarrassing you in front of a huge crowd. Lemmy will also summon enemies, and also try to cast magic that prevents you using the card you were about to use. After getting Lemmy to a low-ish HP. He enters his phase where its the Grand Finale, more specifically he turns his wand into a "wonder ball" and then goes inside his shell, basically turning him invincible. In order to stop this, you have to use the Disco Thing Card and force Lemmy into a boogie, he couldn't resist. While hes distracted, use the Ice Picker Thing Card to pop his wonder ball, thus making him immediately vulnerable and then almost out of color. He will also try to attack you with his shell and then whatever. After defeating him, you get the Big Paint Star.

After getting the Green Big Paint Star, the paint star seems to have restored... something? The Green Paint Star goes back to Port Prisma, then completing the fountain. {{Stub}}

[[de:Zirkus Lapislazuli]]
[[Category:Locations in Paper Mario: Color Splash]]
[[Category:Amusement-themed]]