<!-- Sam, as of the time of this being posted, does not have a gender. Any attempt to change the wording to favor a particular gender will be considered as vandalism and be immediately reverted. -->

=== Beware the Creeper! ===

Sam introduces themselves to the reader just as a creeper blows up their campsite. To make sure they are more prepared, they decide to learn more about the creeper, and hostile mobs in general. Sam collects more wood and builds a house before nightfall, and then mines iron the next day to craft some iron armor to protect themselves. Sam also suspects that creepers spawn in the dark, so they place torches around their house to prevent them from spawning. Despite this, Sam decides to venture out into the darkness, soon coming across a creeper nearby in a forest. They hide behind a tree as the creeper approaches, and then attacks the creeper, ultimately killing it and making it drop gunpowder. Sam decides to kill more creepers to obtain more gunpowder, ultimately using it with sand to craft TNT. The next day, Sam comes across a village and finds their first diamond in a chest. They also tame a cat, which helps to scare creepers away. A skeleton then appears and starts attacking Sam, but the creeper takes the blunt of the arrows and drops a music disc when killed. Sam picks up the music disc, kills off the skeleton, and then feeds fish to their cat before taking shelter in a house in the village that night. Some time later, Sam crafts a jukebox and begins dancing to the music from the music disc.

=== I Survived a Skeleton! ===

Sam once again introduces themself to the reader as they mine inside a cave. Just then, skeletons shoot at them, having spawned thanks to a nearby mob spawner. Sam decides to head out of the cave into daylight, fortunately allowing them to buy some time as the skeletons that were after them burn up under the sun. Sam decides to craft some iron armor and a shield at home before heading off to a snowy area that night, coming across some strays. After blocking one of their arrows with a shield, Sam kills one of them and takes their bow before hurrying back home to build an observation tower the following day. Later, a thunderstorm rolls in, and despite the hostile mobs, Sam feels safe up in the tower. As the storm passes, Sam notices a skeleton horse in the distance and checks on it, but lightning strikes it, turning it into a skeleton trap horseman, whilst spawning three others. Sam retreats to the observation tower as the skeletons shoot at them, but they eventually get the upper hand (literally) and kill the skeletons. Sam then puts on an enchanted helmet that one of the skeletons left behind, along with iron armor, and equips themself with their shield and an enchanted bow from another killed skeleton, and then kills the skeletons spawning in the dungeon that is home to the spawner. Sam then finds a saddle in the dungeon chest before using it on a skeleton horse, saying to the reader that they feel like they can take on anything.

=== Mysterious Mooshroom! ===

Sam sets off from their camp, hoping to find as many different biomes as they can. They decide to only bring their tools so they have plenty of room in their inventory "to bring back treasures." They go through mountains, an old-growth forest, and a flower forest, before coming to a shore and noticing an island in the distance that had trees that "weren’t shaped like other trees." Sam then crafts a boat and heads toward the island, soon noticing that it is a mushroom biome, and upon making it to said island, soon discovers a mooshroom. Sam then empties the water from their bucket and milks the mooshroom for milk, followed by using a bowl on it for mushroom stew. Just then, the sun starts to set, and Sam prepares themselves for any hostile mobs that could spawn, but is surprised when not a single hostile mob spawns at all. The following morning, they tempt a mooshroom with wheat onto their boat and bring it back home just as a thunderstorm starts to roll in. After Sam brings the mooshroom to a fenced area near their house, they head inside as it starts to rain, and then, lighting strikes just outside their house. When the storm clears, Sam notices that the mooshroom has turned into a brown mooshroom, realizing that there are "still many mysteries" for him to explore in this world.