== '''The Goodnight mod''' ==

Keep in mind that this is still only around 10% done. This is HIGHLY experimental and work in progress.

For version Forge 1.20.1. Right now there isn't another version. Download the mod at: https://www.curseforge.com/minecraft/mc-mods/goodnight. This is the only place to get the mod, if you got it from somewhere else it is a scam.

'''Note this is a CLIENT only mod. This does not work on servers.'''

Adds horror elements and characters to the game. An easter egg appears where Goodnight is "Goodday" instead of "Goodnight". This is a horror mod, with many elements relating to The Broken Script, which is what this mod is inspired off of.

This mod is heavily inspired by the mod, "The broken script".

== '''Characters''' ==
In this mod, there are a few planned characters and some with partial implementation (as of 4:38PM MST, 6/24/2025 [mm/dd/yy]).
Currently, only Goodnight and LwlG3tPwn3d433 have been semi-implemented. In the files of the mod are textures for these entities, and even a LwlG3tPwn3d433 full entity (model + texture)

The first character you'll probably ever see is Goodnight. Goodnight is a mostly black figure with the same shape and model of a player. However, his head is a moon. He can be sometimes found watching the player. Looking at him triggers reputation to go down by around 1. We'll get to reputation in a bit. Upon looking at him, he will disappear after around 10 ticks, or half a second.

The second character you'll likely see is AAsD3. Originally, this was a player. Now as a ghost haunting your world, he will never appear until much, much later in the game. Once you have picked up your first ever diamond, he will jumpscare you and take every diamond you have in your inventory. The threshold is a random between 1-5 diamonds in your inventory. Past this first jumpscare, collecting netherite or diamonds has a 15% chance to give you a jumpscare and take the item.

The third character in the game you will never see. Her name is roses01010101. She will occasionally spawn a creeper in front of you even if it is day. The chance of this is around 2% per second. Sometimes she will teleport you fourty blocks in the air, and send a chat message that looks like this: "<roses01010101> I hope you're happy with your choices." Upon this happening, if you survive the fall you are fine. If you die, she will send another chat message like this: "<roses01010101> A pity."

The fourth character you will find is LwlG3tPwn3d433. This can only happen later in the game, after 10 nights have passed. He sends binary text, which decodes to many different things. Note, he is being finished currently (2:49AM MST 6/28/2025), and currently checks your reputation with Goodnight, and if its lower than 4 he sends:

<LwlG3tPwn3d433> y0u12 shdnt b hre122

<LwlG3tPwn3d433> if y011 here, then 0101022 and you aren't supos101d to be here.

<Goodnight> This is not your world.

<LwlG3tPwn3d433> MDJ1IHNob3VsZG4ndCBoYTAxMDEgZXZlciBlbmRlZCB1cCBoZXJlLiB3ZSBhbGwgdGgwMXVnaHQgd2UgdzAxMGxkbid0IHNlZSBhIHBsYXllciBhZ2Fpbi4gMDEwMSAwMTAxMzMybid0IDAxMzJheSBhNG55bnlueXkgbG9uNDVlci4=

Sometimes it is slightly different, but he will spawn 10-20 blocks from the player, and he will stare directly at a player. As he says this, Goodnight jumps in and doubles down that it is not your world. 

If your reputation is too low (>4), he will stare at you for 5 seconds before sending "..." in chat, locking your controls and movement on camera and such, forcing you into survival mode, giving you weakness, blindness, and darkness and will crash your game.

As an easter egg, there is a 1/1000 chance that you will meet Goodday instead of Goodnight upon loading the world. Instead of the midnight enchantment, you will have the midday enchantment. This gives you the same debuffs but during day. However, your sword won't deal less damage like midnight does. It will ONLY give you the debuffs.

== '''Chat messages''' ==
This is by far the most important knowledge to know. Below are chat messages and the responses. Everything gets filtered for punctuation and capitals before its checked. Reminder, there will be more in the future.
If the player says in chat "goodnight", Goodnight responds by saying "The end comes at night" before inflicting the player with darkness and blindness.

If the player says in chat "f**k you" (the real word, not censored) then goodnight responds by crashing the game, giving hunger 20 for 40 minutes, health boost 255 for 8 minutes, poison 20 for 40 minutes, darkness 20 for 40 minutes, blindness 20 for 40 minutes, and mining fatigue 20 for 40 minutes. The game also plays a lot of ambient cave noises and witch noises before crashing. Logging back on shows all the effects.

If the player says in chat "herobrine" then nothing happens to the player, but Goodnight responds by saying "<Goodnight type.type.type.type (this goes on for a LONG TIME, the message is massive.)>".

== '''Reputation system''' ==
This hasn't been implemented yet. It is still just being planned.

The reputation system is an attribute modifiable with cheats but impossible to do inside the game. You have to modify the player via files. We'll get into that later.

The reputation system basically determines how angry and how frequent events happen. Say your reputation is 0, then events happen at a regular pace. Anything below 0 starts making these events more frequent and attacks more frequent. If it is a positive number above 0, then these become way less frequent.

You can gain reputation by being nice to Goodnight. An example is saying "hello" or "how are you" or saying "Thank you" when he gives you a gift. These all increase reputation by 0.5.
Losing reputation is way easier. Looking at Goodnight when he watches you will cause your reputation to go down by 1. If you attack him he will disappear and your reputation will go down by 3.

== '''Anti cheat''' ==
You saw that right. An anti cheat actually exists. If cheats are enabled in a world you will be kicked with this message immediately:

"[Server Notice] Cheats detected. Session terminated." 

"Reason: '§cSigma Violation — Not Gigachad Enough.'\n" 

"To appeal, uninstall the mod and reflect on your life choices. Next time, dont cheat." 

"— §bGoodnight V2." +

"§bYou disgust both Goodnight and Goodday."